---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 02/03/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_cloud"></a> Improvements to cloud-connected services

This release includes the following improvements for monitoring the connection from Configuration Manager to cloud services. For example, [Desktop Analytics](../../../../../desktop-analytics/overview.md). These features help you troubleshoot connectivity issues between on-premises systems and the connected cloud service.

### Critical status message shows server connection errors to required endpoints

<!-- 5566763 -->

If the Configuration Manager site server fails to connect to required endpoints for a cloud service, it raises a critical status message ID 11488. When the site server can't connect to the service, the SMS_SERVICE_CONNECTOR component status changes to critical. View detailed status in the **Component Status** node of the Configuration Manager console. For more information, see the following articles:

- [Monitor the status system of Configuration Manager](../../../../servers/manage/use-status-system.md#monitor-the-status-system)

- [Internet access requirements](../../../../plan-design/network/internet-endpoints.md)

- [Desktop Analytics endpoints](../../../../../desktop-analytics/enable-data-sharing.md#endpoints)

### Connection Health dashboard shows client connection issues

<!-- 4963230, 4963383 -->

Use the Desktop Analytics [Connection Health](../../../../../desktop-analytics/monitor-connection-health.md) dashboard in Configuration Manager to monitor the clients' connectivity health. It now helps you to more easily identify any client connectivity issues in two areas:

- **Endpoint connectivity checks**: If clients can't reach an internet [required endpoint](../../../../../desktop-analytics/enable-data-sharing.md#endpoints), you see a configuration alert in the dashboard. From the Connection Health dashboard, drill down into clients that are unable to unenroll. The **Endpoint connectivity checks** property of the device shows a numbered list of endpoints to which it can't connect.

- **Connectivity status**: If your clients use a proxy server to access the Desktop Analytics cloud service, Configuration Manager now displays proxy authentication issues from clients. From the Connection Health dashboard, drill down into clients that are unable to unenroll. The **Connectivity status** property of the device shows the following details:

  - Status code
  - Return code

  For more information on configuring proxy servers for use with Desktop Analytics, see [Proxy server authentication](../../../../../desktop-analytics/enable-data-sharing.md#proxy-server-authentication).

For more general information on troubleshooting Desktop Analytics, see the following articles:

- [Troubleshoot Desktop Analytics](../../../../../desktop-analytics/troubleshooting.md)
- [Log files for Desktop Analytics](../../../../plan-design/hierarchy/log-files.md#desktop-analytics)
