---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 01/31/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_cmg"></a> Token based authentication for cloud management gateway

<!--5686290-->

The cloud management gateway (CMG) supports many types of clients, but even with [Enhanced HTTP](../../../../plan-design/hierarchy/enhanced-http.md), these clients require a [client authentication certificate](../../../../clients/manage/cmg/configure-authentication.md#pki-certificate). This certificate requirement can be challenging to provision on internet-based clients that don't often connect to the internal network, aren't able to join Azure Active Directory (Azure AD), and don't have a method to install a PKI-issued certificate.

Starting in this release, Configuration Manager extends its device support with the following methods:

> [!NOTE]
> These methods only support device-centric management scenarios.
>
> Microsoft recommends joining devices to Azure AD. Internet-based devices can use Azure AD to authenticate with Configuration Manager. It also enables both device and user scenarios whether the device is on the internet or connected to the internal network.

### Register on the internal network for a unique token

This method requires the client to first register with the management point on the internal network. Client registration typically happens right after installation. Now the management point gives the client a unique token that shows it's using a self-signed certificate. When the client roams onto the internet, to communicate with the CMG it pairs its self-signed certificate with the management point-issued token. The client renews the token once a month, and it's valid for 90 days.

The site enables this behavior by default.

### Create a bulk registration token for internet-based devices

If you can't install and register clients on the internal network, you can now create a bulk registration token. Use this token when the client installs on an internet-based device, and registers through the CMG. The bulk registration token has a short-validity period, and isn't stored on the client or the site. It allows the client to generate a unique token, which paired with its self-signed certificate, lets it authenticate with the CMG.

#### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. Sign in to the top-level site server in the hierarchy with local administrator privileges.

1. Open a command prompt as an administrator.

1. Run the tool from the `\bin\X64` folder of the Configuration Manager installation directory on the site server: `BulkRegistrationTokenTool.exe`. Create a new token with the `/new` parameter. For example, `BulkRegistrationTokenTool.exe /new`.

    The tool displays the following information:
  
    - A GUID that the site uses to track issued tokens
    - The token validity period.
    - The token.

1. Copy the token and save it in a secure location.

1. Install the Configuration Manager client on an internet-based device. Include the new client installation parameter: **/regtoken**. The following example command line includes the other required setup parameters and properties:

    `ccmsetup.exe /mp:https://CONTOSO.CLOUDAPP.NET/CCM_Proxy_MutualAuth/72186325152220500 CCMHOSTNAME=CONTOSO.CLOUDAPP.NET/CCM_Proxy_MutualAuth/72186325152220500 SMSSiteCode=ABC SMSMP=https://mp1.contoso.com /regtoken:eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsIng1dCI6Ik9Tbzh2Tmd5VldRUjlDYVh5T2lacHFlMDlXNCJ9.eyJTQ0NNVG9rZW5DYXRlZ29yeSI6IlNDQ01QcmVBdXRoVG9rZW4iLCJBdXRob3JpdHkiOiJTQ0NNIiwiTGljZW5zZSI6IlNDQ00iLCJUeXBlIjoiQnVsa1JlZ2lzdHJhdGlvbiIsIlRlbmFudElkIjoiQ0RDQzVFOTEtMEFERi00QTI0LTgyRDAtMTk2NjY3RjFDMDgxIiwiVW5pcXVlSWQiOiJkYjU5MWUzMy0wNmZkLTRjNWItODJmMy1iZjY3M2U1YmQwYTIiLCJpc3MiOiJ1cm46c2NjbTpvYXV0aDI6Y2RjYzVlOTEtMGFkZi00YTI0LTgyZDAtMTk2NjY3ZjFjMDgxIiwiYXVkIjoidXJuOnNjY206c2VydmljZSIsImV4cCI6MTU4MDQxNTUwNSwibmJmIjoxNTgwMTU2MzA1fQ.ZUJkxCX6lxHUZhMH_WhYXFm_tbXenESpgnbIqI1h8hYIJw7xDk3wv625SCfNfsqxhAwRwJByfkXdVGgIpAcFshzArXUVPPvmiUGaxlbB83etUTQjrLIk-gvQQZiE5NSgJ63LCp5KtqFCZe8vlZxnOloErFIrebjFikxqAgwOO4i5ukJdl3KQ07YPRhwpuXmwxRf1vsiawXBvTMhy40SOeZ3mAyCRypQpQNa7NM3adCBwUtYKwHqiX3a1jQU0y57LvU_brBfLUL6JUpk3ri-LSpwPFarRXzZPJUu4-mQFIgrMmKCYbFk3AaEvvrJienfWSvFYLpIYA7lg-6EVYRcCAA`

    > [!TIP]
    > For more information on this command line, see [Install and register the client using Azure AD identity](../../../../clients/deploy/deploy-clients-cmg-azure.md#install-and-register-the-client-using-azure-ad-identity). This process is similar, just doesn't use the Azure AD properties.
