---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 01/22/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_console"></a> View recently connected consoles 
<!--3699367-->

Based on your feedback, you can now view the most recent connections for the Configuration Manager console. The view includes active connections and those that recently connected.

### Prerequisites

- Your account needs the **Read** permission on the **SMS_Site** object  

- Enable the SMS Provider to use a certificate.<!--SCCMDocs-pr issue 3135--> Use one of the following options:  

    - Enable [Enhanced HTTP](../../../../plan-design/hierarchy/enhanced-http.md) (recommended)  

    - Manually bind a PKI-based certificate to port 443 in IIS on the server that hosts the SMS Provider role  


### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Administration** workspace.  

2. Expand **Security** and select the **Console Connections** node.  

3. View the recent connections, with the following properties:  

    - User name
    - Machine name
    - Connected site code
    - Console version
    - Last connected time: When the user last *opened* the console

You'll always see your current console connection in the list. It only shows connections from the Configuration Manager console, not PowerShell or other SDK-based connections to the SMS Provider. The site removes instances from the list that are older than 30 days.


### Known issue

When you view this node, the Configuration Manager console may stop working correctly. 

#### Workaround
On the properties of the SMS Provider site role, disable the option to **Allow Configuration Manager cloud management gateway traffic for administration service**.

