---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 01/22/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_neo"></a> Specify priority for feature updates in Windows 10 servicing
<!--3734525-->

Adjust the priority with which clients install a feature update through [Windows 10 servicing](../../../../../osd/deploy-use/manage-windows-as-a-service.md). By default, clients now install feature updates with higher processing priority. 

A new client setting provides the following options: 

- **Normal**: Windows Setup uses more system resources and updates faster. It uses more processor time, so the total installation time is shorter, but the user's outage is longer. This value is the default.  

- **Low**: You can continue to work on the device while it downloads and updates in the background. The total installation time is longer, but the user's outage is shorter.  

<!-- - **Not configured**: Configuration Manager doesn't make changes to the thread priority property in the setupconfig.ini configuration file.   -->


> [!Tip]  
> This setting has no impact on Windows 10 in-place upgrade task sequences.  


### Prerequisites

This setting applies when upgrading to Windows 10, version 1709 or later.  


### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. Configure client settings. For more information, see [How to configure client settings](../../../../clients/deploy/configure-client-settings.md).  

2. In the **Software Updates** group, configure the following setting: **Specify thread priority for feature updates**.  

3. Deploy a Windows 10 feature update using a servicing plan. For more information, see [Windows 10 servicing plan](../../../../../osd/deploy-use/manage-windows-as-a-service.md#windows-servicing-plan).  


### How it works

This setting configures the following options in the setupconfig.ini file on the device:

- **Normal**: `/Priority Normal`
- **Low**: remove the `/Priority` property

For more information, see [Windows Setup Command-Line Options](/windows-hardware/manufacture/desktop/windows-setup-command-line-options).