---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 01/22/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_cmg"></a> Stop cloud service when it exceeds threshold
<!--3735092-->

Configuration Manager can now stop a cloud management gateway (CMG) service when the total data transfer goes over your limit. The CMG has always had [alerts](../../../../clients/manage/cmg/monitor-clients-cloud-management-gateway.md#set-up-outbound-traffic-alerts), to trigger notifications when the usage reached warning or critical levels. To help reduce any unexpected Azure costs because of a spike in usage, this new option turns off the cloud service. 

> [!Important]  
> Even if the service isn't running, there are still costs associated with the cloud service. Stopping the service doesn't eliminate all associated Azure costs. To remove all cost for the cloud service, [delete the CMG](../../../../clients/manage/cmg/modify-cloud-management-gateway.md#delete-the-service).
> 
> When the CMG service is stopped, internet-based clients can't communicate with Configuration Manager.  

The total data transfer (egress) includes data from the cloud service and storage account. This data comes from the following flows:
- CMG to client  
- CMG to site, including CMG log files  
- If you enable CMG for content, storage account to client  

For more information on these data flows, see [CMG ports and data flow](../../../../clients/manage/cmg/data-flow.md).

The storage alert threshold is separate. That alert monitors the capacity of your Azure storage instance.

When you select the CMG instance in the **Cloud Management Gateway** node in the console, you can see the total data transfer in the details pane. 

Configuration Manager checks the threshold value every six minutes. If there's a sudden spike in usage, Configuration Manager can take up to six minutes to detect it exceeded the threshold and stop the service.


### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. [Set up outbound traffic alerts](../../../../clients/manage/cmg/monitor-clients-cloud-management-gateway.md#set-up-outbound-traffic-alerts)  

2. Enable the option to **Stop this service when it exceeds the critical threshold**.  

3. To test this option, temporarily reduce one of the following values:  

    - **14-day threshold for outbound data transfer (GB)**. The default value is `10000`.  

    - **Percentage of threshold for raising Critical alert**. The default value is `90`.  

