---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 04/30/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_osdpart"></a> Improvement to Format and Partition Disk task sequence step

<!--6610288-->

Based on your feedback, you can use a task sequence variable to specify the target of the **Format and Partition Disk** step. This new variable option supports more complex task sequences with dynamic behaviors. For example, a custom script can detect the disk and set the variable based on the hardware type. Then you can use multiple instances of this step to configure different hardware types and partitions.

The following mock steps show one example:

- **Run PowerShell Script**: a custom script to collect target disks
  - Sets `myOSDisk` to `1`
  - Sets `myDataDisk` to `2`

- **Format and Partition Disk** for OS disk: specifies `myOSDisk` variable
  - Configures disk 1 as the system disk

- **Format and Partition Disk** for data disk: specifies `myDataDisk` variable
  - Configures disk 2 for raw storage

A variation of this example uses disk numbers and partitioning plans for different hardware types.

> [!NOTE]
> You can still use the existing task sequence variable **OSDDiskIndex**. However, each instance of the **Format and Partition Disk** step uses the same value. If you want to programmatically set the disk number for multiple instances of this step, use this new option.

To configure this new option on the **Format and Partition Disk** step, select **Variable name to store disk number**, and then enter a custom variable name. Add an earlier step in the task sequence to set the value of this custom variable to an integer value for the physical disk.
