---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 04/30/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_copydisco"></a> Copy discovery data from the console

<!--6890051-->

Based on your feedback, you can now copy discovery data from devices and users in the console. Copy the details to the clipboard, or export them all to a file. These new actions make it easier for you to quickly get this data from the console. For example, copy the MAC address of a device before you reimage it.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace. Open the properties for a user or device.

1. On the **General** tab, in the **Discovery data** list, select one or more properties.

1. Right-click the selection, and choose one of the following actions:

    - **Copy value**: Copies just the value. You can also use the keyboard shortcut **Ctrl** + **C**.

    - **Copy property and value**: Copies both the property name and the corresponding value. You can also use the keyboard shortcut **Ctrl** + **Shift** + **C**.

    - **Select all**: Selects all properties and values. You can also use the keyboard shortcut **Ctrl** + **A**.

    - **Save results as**: Saves all properties and values to a comma-separated values (CSV) file that you specify.

:::image type="content" source="../../media/6890051-copy-discovery-data.png" alt-text="Screenshot of device properties to copy discovery data":::
