---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 04/30/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_osdmi"></a> Management insight rules for OS deployment

<!--6982275-->

This release includes additional [management insight](../../../../servers/manage/management-insights.md) rules to help you manage the policy size of task sequences. When the size of the task sequence policy exceeds 32 MB, the client fails to process the large policy. The client then fails to run the task sequence deployment.

- **Large task sequences may contribute to exceeding maximum policy size**: If you deploy these task sequences, clients may not be able to process the large policy objects. Reduce the size of the task sequence policy to prevent potential policy processing issues.

- **Total policy size for task sequences exceeds policy limit**: Clients can't process the policy for these task sequences because it's too large. Reduce the size of the task sequence policy to allow the deployment to run on clients.

> [!TIP]
> These rules are in a new group for **Operating System Deployment**. The existing rule for [Unused boot images](../../../../servers/manage/management-insights.md#proactive-maintenance) is now in this group too.

### How to reduce the size of task sequence policy

The following actions can help reduce the overall size of policy of a task sequence deployment:

- Separate functional segments into child task sequences, and use the [Run Task Sequence](../../../../../osd/understand/task-sequence-steps.md#child-task-sequence) step. Each task sequence has a separate 32-MB limit on its policy size.

    > [!NOTE]
    > Reducing the total number of steps and groups in a task sequence has minimal impact on the policy size. Each step is generally a couple of KB in policy. Moving groups of steps to a child task sequence is more impactful.

- Reduce the number of software updates in deployments to the same collection as the task sequence.

- Instead of entering a script in the [Run PowerShell Script](../../../../../osd/understand/task-sequence-steps.md#BKMK_RunPowerShellScript) step, reference it via a package.

- There's an 8-KB limit on the size of the task sequence environment when it runs. Review the usage of custom task sequence variables, which can also contribute to the policy size.

- As a last resort, split a complex, dynamic task sequence into separate task sequences with distinct deployments to different collections.
