---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-other
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 01/29/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_da"></a> Improvements to Desktop Analytics connection

This release includes the following improvements for monitoring the connection from Configuration Manager to [Desktop Analytics](/configmgr/desktop-analytics/overview). These features help you troubleshoot connectivity issues between on-premises systems and the cloud service.

For more general information on troubleshooting Desktop Analytics, see the following articles:

- [Troubleshoot Desktop Analytics](/configmgr/desktop-analytics/troubleshooting)
- [Log files for Desktop Analytics](/configmgr/core/plan-design/hierarchy/log-files#desktop-analytics)

### Connection Health dashboard shows client connection errors to required endpoints

<!-- 4963230 -->

Use the [Connection Health](/configmgr/desktop-analytics/monitor-connection-health) dashboard in Configuration Manager to monitor the site's connection health with the cloud service. It now helps you to more easily identify any client connectivity issues with [required endpoints](/configmgr/desktop-analytics/enable-data-sharing#endpoints). If clients can't reach any required endpoint, you see a configuration alert in the dashboard. From the Connection Health dashboard, drill down into clients that are unable to unenroll. The **Endpoint connectivity checks** property of the device shows a numbered list of endpoints to which it can't connect.

### Critical status message shows server connection errors to required endpoints

<!-- 5566763 -->

If the Configuration Manager site server fails to connect to required endpoints for the Desktop Analytics cloud service, it raises a critical status message ID 11488. When the site server can't connect to the service, the SMS_SERVICE_CONNECTOR component status changes to critical. View detailed status in the **Component Status** node of the Configuration Manager console. For more information, see [Monitor the status system of Configuration Manager](/configmgr/core/servers/manage/use-alerts-and-the-status-system#BKMK_MonitorSystemStatus).

<!-- what's the specific status message ID? -->

The following endpoints are the subset of all [required endpoints](/configmgr/desktop-analytics/enable-data-sharing#endpoints) that are specific to the site server:

- `https://aka.ms`
- `https://graph.windows.net`
- `https://*.manage.microsoft.com`

### Client connectivity status includes proxy configuration issues

<!-- 4963383 -->

If your clients use a proxy server to access the Desktop Analytics cloud service, Configuration Manager now displays proxy authentication issues from clients. From the Connection Health dashboard, drill down into clients that are unable to unenroll. The **Connectivity status** property of the device shows the following details:

- Proxy type
- Status code
- Return code

For more information on configuring proxy servers for use with Desktop Analytics, see [Proxy server authentication](/configmgr/desktop-analytics/enable-data-sharing#proxy-server-authentication).
