memdocs/intune/fundamentals/in-development.md, before:

---
# required metadata

title: In development - Microsoft Intune
description: This article describes Microsoft Intune features that are in development.
keywords:
author: dougeby
ms.author: dougeby
manager: dougeby
ms.date: 10/29/2024
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: microsoft-intune
ms.subservice: fundamentals

# optional metadata

#audience:

ms.reviewer: lebacon
ms.suite: ems
search.appverid: MET150
#ms.tgt_pltfrm:
ms.collection:
- tier1
- M365-identity-device-management
- highpri
- highseo
---

# In development for Microsoft Intune

To help in your readiness and planning, this article lists Intune UI updates and features that are in development but not yet released. Also:

- If we anticipate that you'll need to take action before a change, we'll publish a complementary post in the Office message center.
- When a feature enters production, whether it's in preview or generally available, the feature description will move from this article to [What's new](whats-new.md).
- Refer to the [Microsoft 365 roadmap](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/roadmap?rtc=2&filters=EMS) for strategic deliverables and timelines.

This article and the [What's new](whats-new.md) article are updated periodically. Check back for more updates.

> [!NOTE]
> This article reflects our current expectations about Intune capabilities in an upcoming release. Dates and individual features might change. This article doesn't describe all features in development. It was last updated on the date shown under the title.

You can use RSS to be notified when this article is updated. For more information, see [How to use the docs](../../use-docs.md#notifications).
<!-- **RSS feed**: Find out when this article is updated by copying and pasting the following URL into your feed reader: `https://learn.microsoft.com/api/search/rss?search=%22in+development+-+microsoft+intune%22&locale=en-us` -->

<!-- Common categories: use this order:
## Microsoft Intune Suite
## App management
## Device configuration
## Device enrollment
## Device management
## Device security
## Intune apps
## Monitor and troubleshoot
## Role-based access control
## Tenant administration
## Notices
-->

<!-- ***********************************************-->

## Microsoft Intune Suite

### Use Copilot with Endpoint Privilege Manager to help identify potential elevation risks<!-- 27265509 -->

We’re adding support for Copilot to help you investigate Endpoint Privilege Manager (EPM) elevation details. Copilot will help you evaluate information from you EPM elevation requests to identify potential indicators of compromise by using information from [Microsoft Defender](/defender-endpoint/microsoft-defender-endpoint).

EPM is available as an [Intune Suite add-on-capability](../fundamentals/intune-add-ons.md). To learn more about how you can use Copilot in Intune, see [Microsoft Copilot in Intune](../copilot/copilot-intune-overview.md).

### Endpoint Privilege Manager elevation rule support for file arguments and parameters<!--28077130 -->

Soon, the file elevation rules for Endpoint Privilege Manager (EPM) will support use of arguments or parameters that you want to allow. Arguments and parameters that aren't explicitly allowed will be blocked from use. This capability helps to improve control of the context for file elevations.

EPM is available as an [Intune Suite add-on-capability](../fundamentals/intune-add-ons.md).

<!-- ***********************************************-->

## App management

### Added protection for iOS/iPadOS app widgets<!-- 14614429 -->

To protect organizational data for MAM managed accounts and apps, Intune app protection policies now provide the capability to block data sync from policy managed app data to app widgets. App widgets can be added to end-user's iOS/iPadOS device lock screen, which can expose data contained by these widgets, such as meeting titles, top sites, and recent notes. In Intune, you'll be able to set the app protection policy setting **Sync policy managed app data with app widgets** to **Block** for iOS/iPadOS apps. This setting will be available as part of the **Data Protection** settings in app protection policies. This new setting will be an app protection feature similar to the **Sync policy managed app data with native app or add-ins** setting.

Applies to:

- iOS/iPadOS

<!-- *********************************************** -->

## Device configuration

### New settings available in the Apple settings catalog <!--29038336 -->

The [Settings Catalog](../configuration/settings-catalog.md) lists all the settings you can configure in a device policy, and all in one place. For more information about configuring Settings Catalog profiles in Intune, see [Create a policy using settings catalog](../configuration/settings-catalog.md).

We're adding new settings to the Settings Catalog. To view available settings, in the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431), go to **Devices** > **Manage devices** > **Configuration** > **Create** > **New policy** > **iOS/iPadOS** or **macOS** for platform > **Settings catalog** for profile type.

#### iOS/iPadOS

**Restrictions**:

- Allow Apps To Be Hidden
- Allow Apps To Be Locked
- Allow Call Recording
- Allow Mail Summary
- Allow RCS Messaging

##### macOS

**Declarative Device Management (DDM) > Math Settings**:

- Calculator
  - Input Mode - RPN

**Restrictions**:

- Allow Mail Summary
- Allow Media Sharing Modification

The following settings have been deprecated by Apple and will be marked as deprecated in the Settings Catalog:

#### macOS

**Security > Firewall**:

- Enable Logging
- Logging Option

<!-- *********************************************** -->

<!-- ## Device enrollment -->

<!-- *********************************************** -->

## Device management

### Store macOS certificates in user keychain<!-- 7824255 -->

Soon you'll have the option to store macOS certificates in the user keychain. Currently, Microsoft Intune automatically stores user and device certificates in the *device* keychain. The enhancement will strengthen system security, and will improve the user experience by reducing certificate prompts.

Applies to:

- macOS

### Device Inventory for Windows<!-- 24853010 -->

Device inventory lets you collect and view additional hardware properties from your managed devices to help you better understand the state of your devices and make business decisions.

You'll soon be able to choose what you want to collect from your devices, using the catalog of properties and then view the collected properties in the Resource Explorer view.

Applies to:

- Windows (Corporate owned devices managed by Intune)

<!-- *********************************************** -->

## Device security

### Support for Intune Device control policy for devices managed by Microsoft Defender for Endpoint<!-- 15466620 -->

You'll be able to use the endpoint security policy for *Device control* (Attack surface reduction policy) from the Microsoft Intune with the devices you manage through the [Microsoft Defender for Endpoint security settings management](../protect/mde-security-integration.md) capability.

- **Device control** policies are part of endpoint security [Attack surface reduction policy](../protect/endpoint-security-asr-policy.md).

Applies to the following when you use the *Windows 10, Windows 11, and Windows Server* platform:

- Windows 10
- Windows 11

When this change takes effect, devices that are assigned this policy while managed by Defender for Endpoint but not enrolled with Intune, will now apply the settings from the policy. Check your policy to make sure only the devices you intend to receive this policy will get it.

<!-- *********************************************** -->

<!-- ## Intune apps -->

<!-- *********************************************** -->

<!-- ## Role-based access control -->

<!-- *********************************************** -->

## Monitor and troubleshoot

### New device actions for single device query<!--25799823 -->

We're adding the Intune remote device actions to Single device query to help you manage your devices remotely. From the device query interface, you'll be able to run device actions based on query results for faster and more efficient troubleshooting.

Applies to:

- Windows

For more information, see:

- [Device query in Microsoft Intune](../../analytics/device-query.md)
- [Run remote actions on devices with Microsoft Intune](../remote-actions/device-management.md)

### Device Query for Multiple Devices<!--25234456 -->

We're adding Device query for multiple devices. This feature allows you to gain comprehensive insights about your entire fleet of devices using Kusto Query Language (KQL) to query across collected inventory data for your devices.

Device query for multiple devices will be supported for devices running Windows 10 or later. This feature will be included as part of Advanced Analytics.

Applies to:

- Windows

### ICCID will be inventoried for Android Enterprise Dedicated and Fully Managed <!-- 12846449 -->

We're adding the ability to view a device's ICCID number for devices enrolled as Android Enterprise Dedicated or Android Fully Managed. Admins can view ICCID numbers in their device inventory.

When available, you can find the ICCID number for Android devices by navigating to **Devices** > **Android**. Select a device of interest. In the side panel, under **Monitor** select **Hardware**. The ICCID number will be in the **Network details** group. The ICCID number isn't supported for Android Corporate-Owned Work Profile devices.

Applies to:

- Android

<!-- *********************************************** -->

<!-- ## Tenant administration -->

<!-- *********************************************** -->

## Notices

[!INCLUDE [Intune notices](../includes/intune-notices.md)]

## See also

For details about recent developments, see [What's new in Microsoft Intune](whats-new.md).

Commit message:

Adding blurb for 24h2 windows settings

memdocs/intune/fundamentals/in-development.md, after:

---
# required metadata

title: In development - Microsoft Intune
description: This article describes Microsoft Intune features that are in development.
keywords:
author: dougeby
ms.author: dougeby
manager: dougeby
ms.date: 10/29/2024
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: microsoft-intune
ms.subservice: fundamentals

# optional metadata

#audience:

ms.reviewer: lebacon
ms.suite: ems
search.appverid: MET150
#ms.tgt_pltfrm:
ms.collection:
- tier1
- M365-identity-device-management
- highpri
- highseo
---

# In development for Microsoft Intune

To help in your readiness and planning, this article lists Intune UI updates and features that are in development but not yet released. Also:

- If we anticipate that you'll need to take action before a change, we'll publish a complementary post in the Office message center.
- When a feature enters production, whether it's in preview or generally available, the feature description will move from this article to [What's new](whats-new.md).
- Refer to the [Microsoft 365 roadmap](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/roadmap?rtc=2&filters=EMS) for strategic deliverables and timelines.

This article and the [What's new](whats-new.md) article are updated periodically. Check back for more updates.

> [!NOTE]
> This article reflects our current expectations about Intune capabilities in an upcoming release. Dates and individual features might change. This article doesn't describe all features in development. It was last updated on the date shown under the title.

You can use RSS to be notified when this article is updated. For more information, see [How to use the docs](../../use-docs.md#notifications).
<!-- **RSS feed**: Find out when this article is updated by copying and pasting the following URL into your feed reader: `https://learn.microsoft.com/api/search/rss?search=%22in+development+-+microsoft+intune%22&locale=en-us` -->

<!-- Common categories: use this order:
## Microsoft Intune Suite
## App management
## Device configuration
## Device enrollment
## Device management
## Device security
## Intune apps
## Monitor and troubleshoot
## Role-based access control
## Tenant administration
## Notices
-->

<!-- ***********************************************-->

## Microsoft Intune Suite

### Use Copilot with Endpoint Privilege Manager to help identify potential elevation risks<!-- 27265509 -->

We’re adding support for Copilot to help you investigate Endpoint Privilege Manager (EPM) elevation details. Copilot will help you evaluate information from you EPM elevation requests to identify potential indicators of compromise by using information from [Microsoft Defender](/defender-endpoint/microsoft-defender-endpoint).

EPM is available as an [Intune Suite add-on-capability](../fundamentals/intune-add-ons.md). To learn more about how you can use Copilot in Intune, see [Microsoft Copilot in Intune](../copilot/copilot-intune-overview.md).

### Endpoint Privilege Manager elevation rule support for file arguments and parameters<!--28077130 -->

Soon, the file elevation rules for Endpoint Privilege Manager (EPM) will support use of arguments or parameters that you want to allow. Arguments and parameters that aren't explicitly allowed will be blocked from use. This capability helps to improve control of the context for file elevations.

EPM is available as an [Intune Suite add-on-capability](../fundamentals/intune-add-ons.md).

<!-- ***********************************************-->

## App management

### Added protection for iOS/iPadOS app widgets<!-- 14614429 -->

To protect organizational data for MAM managed accounts and apps, Intune app protection policies now provide the capability to block data sync from policy managed app data to app widgets. App widgets can be added to end-user's iOS/iPadOS device lock screen, which can expose data contained by these widgets, such as meeting titles, top sites, and recent notes. In Intune, you'll be able to set the app protection policy setting **Sync policy managed app data with app widgets** to **Block** for iOS/iPadOS apps. This setting will be available as part of the **Data Protection** settings in app protection policies. This new setting will be an app protection feature similar to the **Sync policy managed app data with native app or add-ins** setting.

Applies to:

- iOS/iPadOS

<!-- *********************************************** -->

## Device configuration

### New settings for Windows 24H2 in the Windows settings catalog<!-- 29592329 -->

The Settings Catalog lists all the settings you can configure in a device policy, and all in one place. You can view these Windows settings in the Microsoft Intune admin center by going to **Devices** > **Manage devices** > **Configuration** > **Create** > **New policy** > **Windows 10 and later for platform** > **Settings catalog** for profile type.

We're working on the addition of new settings for Window 24H2.

Applies to:

- Windows

### New settings available in the Apple settings catalog <!--29038336 -->

The [Settings Catalog](../configuration/settings-catalog.md) lists all the settings you can configure in a device policy, and all in one place. For more information about configuring Settings Catalog profiles in Intune, see [Create a policy using settings catalog](../configuration/settings-catalog.md).

We're adding new settings to the Settings Catalog. To view available settings, in the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431), go to **Devices** > **Manage devices** > **Configuration** > **Create** > **New policy** > **iOS/iPadOS** or **macOS** for platform > **Settings catalog** for profile type.

#### iOS/iPadOS

**Restrictions**:

- Allow Apps To Be Hidden
- Allow Apps To Be Locked
- Allow Call Recording
- Allow Mail Summary
- Allow RCS Messaging

##### macOS

**Declarative Device Management (DDM) > Math Settings**:

- Calculator
  - Input Mode - RPN

**Restrictions**:

- Allow Mail Summary
- Allow Media Sharing Modification

The following settings have been deprecated by Apple and will be marked as deprecated in the Settings Catalog:

#### macOS

**Security > Firewall**:

- Enable Logging
- Logging Option

<!-- *********************************************** -->

<!-- ## Device enrollment -->

<!-- *********************************************** -->

## Device management

### Store macOS certificates in user keychain<!-- 7824255 -->

Soon you'll have the option to store macOS certificates in the user keychain. Currently, Microsoft Intune automatically stores user and device certificates in the *device* keychain. The enhancement will strengthen system security, and will improve the user experience by reducing certificate prompts.

Applies to:

- macOS

### Device Inventory for Windows<!-- 24853010 -->

Device inventory lets you collect and view additional hardware properties from your managed devices to help you better understand the state of your devices and make business decisions.

You'll soon be able to choose what you want to collect from your devices, using the catalog of properties and then view the collected properties in the Resource Explorer view.

Applies to:

- Windows (Corporate owned devices managed by Intune)

<!-- *********************************************** -->

## Device security

### Support for Intune Device control policy for devices managed by Microsoft Defender for Endpoint<!-- 15466620 -->

You'll be able to use the endpoint security policy for *Device control* (Attack surface reduction policy) from the Microsoft Intune with the devices you manage through the [Microsoft Defender for Endpoint security settings management](../protect/mde-security-integration.md) capability.

- **Device control** policies are part of endpoint security [Attack surface reduction policy](../protect/endpoint-security-asr-policy.md).

Applies to the following when you use the *Windows 10, Windows 11, and Windows Server* platform:

- Windows 10
- Windows 11

When this change takes effect, devices that are assigned this policy while managed by Defender for Endpoint but not enrolled with Intune, will now apply the settings from the policy. Check your policy to make sure only the devices you intend to receive this policy will get it.

<!-- *********************************************** -->

<!-- ## Intune apps -->

<!-- *********************************************** -->

<!-- ## Role-based access control -->

<!-- *********************************************** -->

## Monitor and troubleshoot

### New device actions for single device query<!--25799823 -->

We're adding the Intune remote device actions to Single device query to help you manage your devices remotely. From the device query interface, you'll be able to run device actions based on query results for faster and more efficient troubleshooting.

Applies to:

- Windows

For more information, see:

- [Device query in Microsoft Intune](../../analytics/device-query.md)
- [Run remote actions on devices with Microsoft Intune](../remote-actions/device-management.md)

### Device Query for Multiple Devices<!--25234456 -->

We're adding Device query for multiple devices. This feature allows you to gain comprehensive insights about your entire fleet of devices using Kusto Query Language (KQL) to query across collected inventory data for your devices.

Device query for multiple devices will be supported for devices running Windows 10 or later. This feature will be included as part of Advanced Analytics.

Applies to:

- Windows

### ICCID will be inventoried for Android Enterprise Dedicated and Fully Managed <!-- 12846449 -->

We're adding the ability to view a device's ICCID number for devices enrolled as Android Enterprise Dedicated or Android Fully Managed. Admins can view ICCID numbers in their device inventory.

When available, you can find the ICCID number for Android devices by navigating to **Devices** > **Android**. Select a device of interest. In the side panel, under **Monitor** select **Hardware**. The ICCID number will be in the **Network details** group. The ICCID number isn't supported for Android Corporate-Owned Work Profile devices.

Applies to:

- Android

<!-- *********************************************** -->

<!-- ## Tenant administration -->

<!-- *********************************************** -->

## Notices

[!INCLUDE [Intune notices](../includes/intune-notices.md)]

## See also

For details about recent developments, see [What's new in Microsoft Intune](whats-new.md).
