memdocs/configmgr/develop/reference/core/clients/collections/sms_collectionmember_a-server-wmi-class.md, before:

---
title: "SMS_CollectionMember_a Class"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
ms.date: "09/20/2016"
ms.prod: "configuration-manager"
ms.technology: configmgr-sdk
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: a443f6b9-5dcf-4eb5-9083-4d78799ebc7b
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: null
ms.collection: openauth


---
# SMS_CollectionMember_a Server WMI Class
The `SMS_CollectionMember_a` association Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) class is an SMS Provider server class, in Configuration Manager, that relates an [SMS_Collection Server WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/collections/sms_collection-server-wmi-class.md) object with [SMS_Resource Server WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/manage/sms_resource-server-wmi-class.md) objects that represent the member resources of the collection.  

 The following syntax is simplified from Managed Object Format (MOF) code and includes all inherited properties.  

## Syntax  

```  
Class SMS_CollectionMember_a : SMS_BaseAssociation  
{  
      UInt32 ClientCertType;  
      UInt32 ClientType;  
      ref:SMS_Collection collection;  
      String CollectionID;  
      UInt32 DeviceOwner;  
      String Domain;  
      Boolean IsActive;  
      Boolean IsAlwaysInternet;  
      UInt32 IsApproved;  
      Boolean IsAssigned;  
      Boolean IsBlocked;  
      Boolean IsClient;  
      Boolean IsDecommissioned;  
      Boolean IsDirect;  
      Boolean IsInternetEnabled;  
      Boolean IsObsolete;  
      String Name;  
      ref:SMS_Resource resource;  
      UInt32 ResourceID;  
      UInt32 ResourceType;  
      String SiteCode;  
      String SMSID;  
      Boolean IsVirtualMachine;  
};  
```  

## Methods  
 The `SMS_CollectionMember_a` class does not define any methods.  

## Properties  
 `ClientCertType`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: none  

 Client certificate type. Possible values are:  

| Value | Client certificate type |
| ----- | ----------------------- |
|1|Self-signed certificate|  
|2|Certificate issued by a certification authority.|  

 `ClientType`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 Type of client. Possible values are:  

| Value | Client type |
| ----- | ----------- |
|1|Client|  
|3|Device|  

 `Collection`  
 Data type: `ref:SMS_Collection`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: [key]  

 Reference to an [SMS_Collection Server WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/collections/sms_collection-server-wmi-class.md) object path.  

 `CollectionID`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 ID of the collection.  

 `DeviceOwner`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 Owner of the device.  

| Value | Device owner |
| ----- | ------------ |
|1|Company|  
|2|Personal|  

 `Domain`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 Windows NT or Windows 2000 domain to which the resource belongs.  

 `IsActive`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 `true` if the resource is active.  

 `IsAlwaysInternet`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 `true` if the resource is always associated with the Internet.  

 `IsApproved`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 Whether the resource is approved. Possible values are:  

| Value | Approval type |
| ----- | ------------- |
|0|Not approved|  
|1|Approved|  
|2|Not applicable|  

 `IsAssigned`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 `true` if the resource is within the site boundaries and has been assigned to the site.  

 `IsBlocked`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 `true` if the resource is blocked.  

 `IsClient`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 `true` if the client software has been installed on the resource.  

 `IsDecommissioned`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 `true` if the resource is decommissioned.  

 `IsDirect`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 `true` if the client is a member of the associated collection by a direct rule. For more information, see [SMS_CollectionRuleDirect Server WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/collections/sms_collectionruledirect-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `IsInternetEnabled`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 `true` if the resource is Internet-enabled.  

 `IsObsolete`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 `true` if the resource is obsolete.  

 `IsVirtualMachine`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: none  

 `true` if this is a virtual machine.  

 `Name`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 Name of the member resource.  

 `resource`  
 Data type: `ref:SMS_Resource`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: [key]  

 Reference to an [SMS_Resource Server WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/manage/sms_resource-server-wmi-class.md) object path.  

 `ResourceID`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 The identifier of the member resource.  

 `ResourceType`  
 Data type: `Uint32`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 Type of the member resource as defined by instances of [SMS_ResourceMap Server WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/manage/sms_resourcemap-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `SiteCode`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: [SizeLimit("3")]  

 Site code of the site with which the resource is associated.  

 `SMSID`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 Configuration Manager unique ID of the member resource.  

## Remarks  
 Class qualifiers for this class include:  

- Association: ToInstance  

- Read (read-only)  

  For more information about both the class qualifiers and the property qualifiers included in the Properties section, see [Configuration Manager Class and Property Qualifiers](../../../../../develop/reference/misc/class-and-property-qualifiers.md).  

  The `CollectionID` and `ResourceID` properties can be used in a WMI Query Language (WQL) WHERE clause. However, you are limited to using an OR condition. Your query might not use the other properties in the relationship.  

## Requirements  

### Runtime Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Server Runtime Requirements](../../../../../develop/core/reqs/server-runtime-requirements.md).  

### Development Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Server Development Requirements](../../../../../develop/core/reqs/server-development-requirements.md).

Commit message:

[bulk] validation: fix missing description issues dh2

memdocs/configmgr/develop/reference/core/clients/collections/sms_collectionmember_a-server-wmi-class.md, after:

---
title: "SMS_CollectionMember_a Class"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
description: "In Configuration Manager, the SMS_CollectionMember_a association WMI class is an SMS Provider server class that relates an SMS_Collection Server WMI Class object with SMS_Resource Server WMI Class objects that represent the member resources of the collection." 
ms.date: "09/20/2016"
ms.prod: "configuration-manager"
ms.technology: configmgr-sdk
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: a443f6b9-5dcf-4eb5-9083-4d78799ebc7b
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: null
ms.collection: openauth


---
# SMS_CollectionMember_a Server WMI Class
The `SMS_CollectionMember_a` association Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) class is an SMS Provider server class, in Configuration Manager, that relates an [SMS_Collection Server WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/collections/sms_collection-server-wmi-class.md) object with [SMS_Resource Server WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/manage/sms_resource-server-wmi-class.md) objects that represent the member resources of the collection.  

 The following syntax is simplified from Managed Object Format (MOF) code and includes all inherited properties.  

## Syntax  

```  
Class SMS_CollectionMember_a : SMS_BaseAssociation  
{  
      UInt32 ClientCertType;  
      UInt32 ClientType;  
      ref:SMS_Collection collection;  
      String CollectionID;  
      UInt32 DeviceOwner;  
      String Domain;  
      Boolean IsActive;  
      Boolean IsAlwaysInternet;  
      UInt32 IsApproved;  
      Boolean IsAssigned;  
      Boolean IsBlocked;  
      Boolean IsClient;  
      Boolean IsDecommissioned;  
      Boolean IsDirect;  
      Boolean IsInternetEnabled;  
      Boolean IsObsolete;  
      String Name;  
      ref:SMS_Resource resource;  
      UInt32 ResourceID;  
      UInt32 ResourceType;  
      String SiteCode;  
      String SMSID;  
      Boolean IsVirtualMachine;  
};  
```  

## Methods  
 The `SMS_CollectionMember_a` class does not define any methods.  

## Properties  
 `ClientCertType`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: none  

 Client certificate type. Possible values are:  

| Value | Client certificate type |
| ----- | ----------------------- |
|1|Self-signed certificate|  
|2|Certificate issued by a certification authority.|  

 `ClientType`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 Type of client. Possible values are:  

| Value | Client type |
| ----- | ----------- |
|1|Client|  
|3|Device|  

 `Collection`  
 Data type: `ref:SMS_Collection`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: [key]  

 Reference to an [SMS_Collection Server WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/collections/sms_collection-server-wmi-class.md) object path.  

 `CollectionID`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 ID of the collection.  

 `DeviceOwner`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 Owner of the device.  

| Value | Device owner |
| ----- | ------------ |
|1|Company|  
|2|Personal|  

 `Domain`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 Windows NT or Windows 2000 domain to which the resource belongs.  

 `IsActive`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 `true` if the resource is active.  

 `IsAlwaysInternet`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 `true` if the resource is always associated with the Internet.  

 `IsApproved`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 Whether the resource is approved. Possible values are:  

| Value | Approval type |
| ----- | ------------- |
|0|Not approved|  
|1|Approved|  
|2|Not applicable|  

 `IsAssigned`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 `true` if the resource is within the site boundaries and has been assigned to the site.  

 `IsBlocked`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 `true` if the resource is blocked.  

 `IsClient`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 `true` if the client software has been installed on the resource.  

 `IsDecommissioned`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 `true` if the resource is decommissioned.  

 `IsDirect`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 `true` if the client is a member of the associated collection by a direct rule. For more information, see [SMS_CollectionRuleDirect Server WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/collections/sms_collectionruledirect-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `IsInternetEnabled`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 `true` if the resource is Internet-enabled.  

 `IsObsolete`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 `true` if the resource is obsolete.  

 `IsVirtualMachine`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: none  

 `true` if this is a virtual machine.  

 `Name`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 Name of the member resource.  

 `resource`  
 Data type: `ref:SMS_Resource`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: [key]  

 Reference to an [SMS_Resource Server WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/manage/sms_resource-server-wmi-class.md) object path.  

 `ResourceID`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 The identifier of the member resource.  

 `ResourceType`  
 Data type: `Uint32`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 Type of the member resource as defined by instances of [SMS_ResourceMap Server WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/manage/sms_resourcemap-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `SiteCode`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: [SizeLimit("3")]  

 Site code of the site with which the resource is associated.  

 `SMSID`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read Only  

 Qualifiers: None  

 Configuration Manager unique ID of the member resource.  

## Remarks  
 Class qualifiers for this class include:  

- Association: ToInstance  

- Read (read-only)  

  For more information about both the class qualifiers and the property qualifiers included in the Properties section, see [Configuration Manager Class and Property Qualifiers](../../../../../develop/reference/misc/class-and-property-qualifiers.md).  

  The `CollectionID` and `ResourceID` properties can be used in a WMI Query Language (WQL) WHERE clause. However, you are limited to using an OR condition. Your query might not use the other properties in the relationship.  

## Requirements  

### Runtime Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Server Runtime Requirements](../../../../../develop/core/reqs/server-runtime-requirements.md).  

### Development Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Server Development Requirements](../../../../../develop/core/reqs/server-development-requirements.md).
