---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 01/17/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_rest"></a> Improvements to administration service

<!--5728365-->

The [administration service](../../../../plan-design/hierarchy/plan-for-the-sms-provider.md#administration-service) is a REST API for the SMS Provider. Previously, you had to implement one of the following dependencies:

- Enable Enhanced HTTP for the entire site
- Manually bind a PKI-based certificate to IIS on the server that hosts the SMS Provider role

Starting in this release, the administration service automatically uses the site's self-signed certificate. This change helps reduce the friction for easier use of the administration service. The site always generates this certificate. The Enhanced HTTP site setting to **Use Configuration Manager-generated certificates for HTTP site systems** only controls whether site systems use it or not. Now the administration service ignores this site setting, as it always uses the site's certificate even if no other site system is using Enhanced HTTP.

The only exception is if you've already bound a PKI certificate to port 443 on the SMS Provider server. If you added a certificate, the administration service uses that existing certificate.

> [!NOTE]
> If in the future you want to switch to a PKI certificate, manually unbind the site's self-signed certificate from port 443 on the SMS Provider. Then you can bind your PKI-based certificate.

Validate this change in the Configuration Manager console. Go to the **Administration** workspace, expand **Security**, and select the **Console Connections** node. This node depends upon the administration service. The existing prerequisites no longer apply, you can view connected consoles by default. For more information, see [View recently connected consoles](../../../../servers/manage/admin-console.md#bkmk_viewconnected).
