---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 01/17/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_tsready"></a> Improvements to Check Readiness task sequence step

<!--6005561-->

Based on your feedback, you can now verify more device properties in the [Check Readiness](../../../../../osd/understand/task-sequence-steps.md#BKMK_CheckReadiness) task sequence step. Use this step in a task sequence to verify the target computer meets your prerequisite conditions.

- **Architecture of current OS**: 32-bit or 64-bit
- **Minimum OS version**: for example, 10.0.16299
- **Maximum OS version**: for example, 10.0.18356
- **Minimum client version**: for example, 5.00.08913.1005
- **Language of current OS**: select the language name, the step compares the associated language code. This check compares the language that you select to the **OSLanguage** property of the Win32_OperatingSystem class on the client.
- **AC power plugged in**
- **Network adapter connected**
  - **Network adapter is not wireless**

None of these new checks are selected by default in new or existing instances of the step.

The step also now sets read-only variables for whether the check returned true (`1`) or false (`0`). If you don't enable a check, the value of the corresponding read-only variable is blank.

- _TS_CRMEMORY
- _TS_CRSPEED
- _TS_CRDISK
- _TS_CROSTYPE
- _TS_CRARCH
- _TS_CRMINOSVER
- _TS_CRMAXOSVER
- _TS_CRCLIENTMINVER
- _TS_CROSLANGUAGE
- _TS_CRACPOWER
- _TS_CRNETWORK
- _TS_CRWIRED

The **smsts.log** includes the outcome of all checks. If one check fails, the task sequence engine continues to evaluate the other checks. The step doesn't fail until all checks are complete. If at least one check fails, the step fails, and it returns error code **4316**. This error code translates to "The resource required for this operation does not exist."

> [!IMPORTANT]
> To take advantage of this new Configuration Manager feature, after you update the site, also update clients to the latest version. While new functionality appears in the Configuration Manager console when you update the site and console, the complete scenario isn't functional until the client version is also the latest.
