---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-other
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 08/02/2019
ms.collection: M365-identity-device-management
---

## <a name="bkmk_tsperf"></a> Task sequence performance improvements for power plans

<!--3555926-->

Based on your [UserVoice feedback](https://configurationmanager.uservoice.com/forums/300492-ideas/suggestions/13442805-speed-up-osd-by-having-configmgr-set-high-performa), task sequences now by default run with the high performance power plan. This option improves the overall speed of the task sequence. It configures Windows to use its built-in high performance power plan, which delivers maximum performance at the expense of higher power consumption.

When the task sequence starts, it records the currently enabled power plan. It then switches the active power plan to the Windows default **High Performance** plan. If the task sequence restarts the computer, it repeats this process. At the end of the task sequence, it resets the power plan to the stored value. This functionality works in both Windows and Windows PE, but has no impact on virtual machines.

> [!Warning]
> Be cautious with this setting on low performance hardware. Running intense system operations for an extended period of time can strain low-end hardware. Check with your hardware manufacturer for specific guidance.

If you want to disable this speed improvement, open the properties of the task sequence. Switch to the **Performance** tab, and disable the option to **Run as high performance power plan**.

> [!Important]
> To take advantage of this new Configuration Manager feature, after you update the site, also update clients to the latest version. While new functionality appears in the Configuration Manager console when you update the site and console, the complete scenario isn't functional until the client version is also the latest.
