---
author: mestew
ms.author: mstewart
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 07/29/2021
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_hub"></a> Publish query to Community hub from CMPivot
<!--9965423-->
You can now publish a CMPivot query to the Community hub directly from the CMPivot window. Submitting your queries directly through CMPivot makes contributing to the Community hub easier.

### Prerequisites:

- Meet all of the [CMPivot prerequisites and permissions](../../../../servers/manage/cmpivot.md#prerequisites)
- Enable [Community hub](../../../../servers/manage/community-hub.md).
   - If needed, install the Microsoft Edge WebView2 extension from the [Configuration Manager console notification](../../../../servers/manage/community-hub.md#bkmk_webview2).
- A GitHub account that's [joined to Community hub](../../../../servers/manage/community-hub-contribute.md#join-the-community-hub-to-contribute-content)
   - You must accept the invitation sent in the email otherwise you won't be able to contribute content.

#### Use CMPivot to publish a query to the Community hub

1. Go to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace then select the **Device Collections** node.
1. Select a target collection, target device, or group of devices then select **Start CMPivot** in the ribbon to launch the tool.
1. From the CMPivot window, select the Community hub icon on the menu.

    :::image type="content" source="../../../../servers/manage/media/7137169-hub-icon.png" alt-text="Community hub icon":::
1. Select **Sign in**, then sign into GitHub.
1. Create a [query](../../../../servers/manage/cmpivot-overview.md), then select **Run Query** to verify it functions as expected.
   - Optionally, select the folder icon to access your favorites list to use a query you've already created.
1. Select the **Publish** link at top of CMPivot's Community hub window when you're ready to submit your query.
   :::image type="content" source="../../media/9965423-publish.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Community hub window in CMPivot showing the publishing tab":::
1. Give your query a **Name** and **Description**, then select the **Publish** button to send your query to the Community hub.
1. Once the contribution is complete, you can access your query anytime from the **Me** tab.
1. To view the GitHub pull request (PR), go to [https://github.com/Microsoft/configmgr-hub/pulls](https://github.com/Microsoft/configmgr-hub/pulls). You can also access the PR link from the **Your hub** page in the **Community hub** node.
   - PRs shouldn't be submitted directly to the GitHub repository.

> [!NOTE]
> Community hub is only available in CMPivot when you run it from the Configuration Manager console. Community hub isn't available from [standalone CMPivot](../../../../servers/manage/cmpivot.md#install-cmpivot-standalone). <!--9442715, 9310040, 9391017-->
