---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 04/29/2021
---

## <a name="bkmk_bitlocker"></a> Tenant attach: BitLocker recovery keys

<!--6979225-->

You can now get BitLocker recovery keys for a [tenant-attached device](../../../../../tenant-attach/device-sync-actions.md) from the Microsoft Intune admin center. For example, a help desk technician who doesn't have access to Configuration Manager could use the web-based admin center to help an end user get a recovery key for their device.

Since this feature is still in preview, you need to access it from the **Admin center preview** option from the Configuration Manager console of the technical preview branch.

### Prerequisites for BitLocker recovery keys with tenant attach

- The administrative user needs the following permissions:

  - On the **Collection** object that's scoped to a collection that includes the device:

    - **Read**

    - **Read BitLocker Recovery Key**

  - An [Intune role](../../../../../../intune/fundamentals/role-based-access-control.md) assigned to the user

- Apply a Configuration Manager [BitLocker management](../../../../../protect/deploy-use/bitlocker/deploy-management-agent.md) policy to the device.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/find-help.md#product-feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace, and select the **Devices** node.

1. Select a device. In the **Device** group on the ribbon, select **Start**, and then select **Admin center preview**. This action opens the preview version of the Microsoft Intune admin center in the default browser.

1. In the admin center preview, select **Recovery keys** in the device menu. You'll see the list of encrypted drives on the device.

1. To display a recovery key for a drive, select **Show recovery key**. This action discloses the recovery key, which causes the device to rotate its recovery key. Select **Yes** to continue and view the key.

1. A pane to the right displays the device information, including the BitLocker recovery key. Select the copy icon to copy the key to the clipboard. This action makes it easier to share with a user.

:::image type="content" source="../../media/6979225-bitlocker-recovery-key.png" alt-text="Microsoft Intune admin center (preview) Recovery Keys":::
