---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 04/22/2021
---

## <a name="bkmk_keyboard"></a> Support layered keyboard driver during OS deployment

<!--9735002-->

Based on your feedback, this release adds support for layered keyboard drivers during OS deployment. This driver specifies other types of keyboards that are common with Japanese and Korean languages. For more information, see the [LayeredDriver](/windows-hardware/customize/desktop/unattend/microsoft-windows-international-core-winpe-layereddriver) setting.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/find-help.md#product-feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. [Create a task sequence](../../../../../osd/deploy-use/create-a-task-sequence-to-install-an-operating-system.md) to install an OS image.

1. [Edit the task sequence](../../../../../osd/understand/task-sequence-editor.md#bkmk_edit).

1. On the **Apply OS Image** step, in the section to **Select layered driver if applicable**, choose one of the following options:

    - **Do not specify** (`0`): This option is the default, which doesn't configure the LayeredDriver setting in the unattend.xml. This behavior is consistent with previous versions of Configuration Manager.
    - **PC/AT Enhanced keyboard (101/102-key)** (`1`)
    - **Korean PC/AT 101-Key Compatible keyboard or the Microsoft Natural keyboard (type 1)** (`2`)
    - **Korean PC/AT 101-Key Compatible keyboard or the Microsoft Natural keyboard (type 2)** (`3`)
    - **Korean PC/AT 101-Key Compatible keyboard or the Microsoft Natural keyboard (type 3)** (`4`)
    - **Korean keyboard (103/106-key)** (`5`)
    - **Japanese keyboard (106/109-key)** (`6`)

1. [Deploy the task sequence](../../../../../osd/deploy-use/deploy-a-task-sequence.md).

You can also use the new **OsdLayeredDriver** task sequence variable. Use the integer values noted after each option to configure this variable. The smsts.log file displays the integer value for this setting when the task sequence runs.
