memdocs/autopilot/tutorial/pre-provisioning/hybrid-azure-ad-join-automatic-enrollment.md, before:

---
title: Windows Autopilot for pre-provisioned deployment hybrid Azure AD join - Step 1 of 10 - Set up Windows automatic Intune enrollment
description: How to - Windows Autopilot for pre-provisioned deployment hybrid Azure AD join - Step 1 of 10 - Set up Windows automatic Intune enrollment.
ms.prod: windows-client
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: frankroj
ms.author: frankroj
ms.reviewer: jubaptis
manager: aaroncz
ms.date: 03/27/2023
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.collection: 
  - tier1
  - highpri
ms.technology: itpro-deploy
---

# Pre-provisioning hybrid Azure AD join: Set up Windows automatic Intune enrollment

Autopilot user-driven hybrid Azure AD join steps:
> [!div class="checklist"]
> - **Step 1: Set up Windows automatic Intune enrollment**
- Step 2: [Install the Intune Connector](hybrid-azure-ad-join-intune-connector.md)
- Step 3: [Increase the computer account limit in the Organizational Unit (OU)](hybrid-azure-ad-join-computer-account-limit.md)
- Step 4: [Register devices as Autopilot devices](hybrid-azure-ad-join-register-device.md)
- Step 5: [Create a device group](hybrid-azure-ad-join-device-group.md)
- Step 6: [Configure and assign Autopilot Enrollment Status Page (ESP)](hybrid-azure-ad-join-esp.md)
- Step 7: [Create and assign hybrid Azure AD join Autopilot profile](hybrid-azure-ad-join-autopilot-profile.md)
- Step 8: [Configure and assign domain join profile](hybrid-azure-ad-join-domain-join-profile.md)

For an overview of the Windows Autopilot user-driven hybrid Azure AD join workflow, see [Windows Autopilot user-driven hybrid Azure AD join overview](hybrid-azure-ad-join-workflow.md)

> [!NOTE]
>
> If you've already set up automatic Intune enrollment from another Autopilot scenario, you can skip this step and move on to [Step 2: Install the Intune Connector](hybrid-azure-ad-join-intune-connector.md).

## Set up Windows automatic Intune enrollment

[!INCLUDE [Set up Windows automatic enrollment](../includes/automatic-intune-enrollment.md)]

## Next step: Install the Intune Connector

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Step 2: Install the Intune Connector](hybrid-azure-ad-join-intune-connector.md)

## More information

[!INCLUDE [More information automatic enrollment](../includes/more-info-automatic-enrollment.md)]

Commit message:

Autopilot for pre-provisioned deployment step by step 4

memdocs/autopilot/tutorial/pre-provisioning/hybrid-azure-ad-join-automatic-enrollment.md, after:

---
title: Windows Autopilot for pre-provisioned deployment hybrid Azure AD join - Step 1 of 10 - Set up Windows automatic Intune enrollment
description: How to - Windows Autopilot for pre-provisioned deployment hybrid Azure AD join - Step 1 of 10 - Set up Windows automatic Intune enrollment.
ms.prod: windows-client
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: frankroj
ms.author: frankroj
ms.reviewer: jubaptis
manager: aaroncz
ms.date: 03/27/2023
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.collection: 
  - tier1
  - highpri
ms.technology: itpro-deploy
---

# Pre-provisioning hybrid Azure AD join: Set up Windows automatic Intune enrollment

Windows Autopilot for pre-provisioned deployment hybrid Azure AD join steps:
> [!div class="checklist"]
> - **Step 1: Set up Windows automatic Intune enrollment**
- Step 2: [Install the Intune Connector](hybrid-azure-ad-join-intune-connector.md)
- Step 3: [Increase the computer account limit in the Organizational Unit (OU)](hybrid-azure-ad-join-computer-account-limit.md)
- Step 4: [Register devices as Autopilot devices](hybrid-azure-ad-join-register-device.md)
- Step 5: [Create a device group](hybrid-azure-ad-join-device-group.md)
- Step 6: [Configure and assign Autopilot Enrollment Status Page (ESP)](hybrid-azure-ad-join-esp.md)
- Step 7: [Create and assign hybrid Azure AD join Autopilot profile](hybrid-azure-ad-join-autopilot-profile.md)
- Step 8: [Configure and assign domain join profile](hybrid-azure-ad-join-domain-join-profile.md)

For an overview of the Windows Autopilot for pre-provisioned deployment hybrid Azure AD join workflow, see [Windows Autopilot for pre-provisioned deployment hybrid Azure AD join overview](hybrid-azure-ad-join-workflow.md)

> [!NOTE]
>
> If you've already set up automatic Intune enrollment from another Autopilot scenario, you can skip this step and move on to [Step 2: Install the Intune Connector](hybrid-azure-ad-join-intune-connector.md).

## Set up Windows automatic Intune enrollment

[!INCLUDE [Set up Windows automatic enrollment](../includes/automatic-intune-enrollment.md)]

## Next step: Install the Intune Connector

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Step 2: Install the Intune Connector](hybrid-azure-ad-join-intune-connector.md)

## More information

[!INCLUDE [More information automatic enrollment](../includes/more-info-automatic-enrollment.md)]
