memdocs/autopilot/tutorial/pre-provisioning/hybrid-azure-ad-join-technician-flow.md, before:

---
title: Windows Autopilot for pre-provisioned deployment hybrid Azure AD join - Step 9 of 10 - Technician flow
description: How to - Windows Autopilot for pre-provisioned deployment hybrid Azure AD join - Step 9 of 10 - Technician flow.
ms.prod: windows-client
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: frankroj
ms.author: frankroj
ms.reviewer: jubaptis
manager: aaroncz
ms.date: 03/29/2023
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.collection: 
  - tier1
  - highpri
ms.technology: itpro-deploy
---

# Pre-provisioning hybrid Azure AD join: Technician flow

Windows Autopilot for pre-provisioned deployment hybrid Azure AD join steps:
- Step 1: [Set up Windows automatic Intune enrollment](hybrid-azure-ad-join-automatic-enrollment.md)
- Step 2: [Install the Intune Connector (OU)](hybrid-azure-ad-join-intune-connector.md)
- Step 3: [Increase the computer account limit in the Organizational Unit](hybrid-azure-ad-join-computer-account-limit.md)
- Step 4: [Register devices as Autopilot devices](hybrid-azure-ad-join-register-device.md)
- Step 5: [Create a device group](hybrid-azure-ad-join-device-group.md)
- Step 6: [Configure and assign Autopilot Enrollment Status Page (ESP)](hybrid-azure-ad-join-esp.md)
- Step 7: [Create and assign hybrid Azure AD join Autopilot profile](hybrid-azure-ad-join-autopilot-profile.md)
- Step 8: [Configure and assign domain join profile](hybrid-azure-ad-join-domain-join-profile.md)
> [!div class="checklist"]
> - **Step 9: Technician flow**
- Step 10: [User flow](hybrid-azure-ad-join-user-flow.md)

For an overview of the Windows Autopilot for pre-provisioned deployment hybrid Azure AD join workflow, see [Windows Autopilot for pre-provisioned deployment hybrid Azure AD join overview](hybrid-azure-ad-join-workflow.md)

## Next step: User flow

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Step 10: User flow](hybrid-azure-ad-join-user-flow.md)

## More information

[!INCLUDE [More information technician flow](../includes/more-info-technician-flow.md)]

Commit message:

Autopilot for pre-provisioned deployment step by step 26

memdocs/autopilot/tutorial/pre-provisioning/hybrid-azure-ad-join-technician-flow.md, after:

---
title: Windows Autopilot for pre-provisioned deployment hybrid Azure AD join - Step 9 of 10 - Technician flow
description: How to - Windows Autopilot for pre-provisioned deployment hybrid Azure AD join - Step 9 of 10 - Technician flow.
ms.prod: windows-client
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: frankroj
ms.author: frankroj
ms.reviewer: jubaptis
manager: aaroncz
ms.date: 03/29/2023
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.collection: 
  - tier1
  - highpri
ms.technology: itpro-deploy
---

# Pre-provisioning hybrid Azure AD join: Technician flow

Windows Autopilot for pre-provisioned deployment hybrid Azure AD join steps:
- Step 1: [Set up Windows automatic Intune enrollment](hybrid-azure-ad-join-automatic-enrollment.md)
- Step 2: [Install the Intune Connector (OU)](hybrid-azure-ad-join-intune-connector.md)
- Step 3: [Increase the computer account limit in the Organizational Unit](hybrid-azure-ad-join-computer-account-limit.md)
- Step 4: [Register devices as Autopilot devices](hybrid-azure-ad-join-register-device.md)
- Step 5: [Create a device group](hybrid-azure-ad-join-device-group.md)
- Step 6: [Configure and assign Autopilot Enrollment Status Page (ESP)](hybrid-azure-ad-join-esp.md)
- Step 7: [Create and assign hybrid Azure AD join Autopilot profile](hybrid-azure-ad-join-autopilot-profile.md)
- Step 8: [Configure and assign domain join profile](hybrid-azure-ad-join-domain-join-profile.md)
> [!div class="checklist"]
> - **Step 9: Technician flow**
- Step 10: [User flow](hybrid-azure-ad-join-user-flow.md)

For an overview of the Windows Autopilot for pre-provisioned deployment hybrid Azure AD join workflow, see [Windows Autopilot for pre-provisioned deployment hybrid Azure AD join overview](hybrid-azure-ad-join-workflow.md)

## Technician flow

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> Hybrid Azure AD join requires both connectivity to the Internet and connectivity to a domain controller. However, connectivity to a domain controller is not needed until the user [User flow](hybrid-azure-ad-join-user-flow.md) step is run. Only connectivity to the Internet is required for the technician flow step.

[!INCLUDE [Technician flow](../includes/technician-flow.md)]

## Next step: User flow

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Step 10: User flow](hybrid-azure-ad-join-user-flow.md)

## More information

[!INCLUDE [More information technician flow](../includes/more-info-technician-flow.md)]
