memdocs/intune/user-help/send-errors-macos.md, before:

---
# required metadata

title: Send errors from your Mac device to your company support | Microsoft Docs
description: Company Portal provides you with an email template and helps you upload the diagnostic details to give your IT team the context to support you. 
keywords:
author: lenewsad

ms.author: lanewsad
manager: dougeby
ms.date: 06/02/2022
ms.topic: end-user-help
ms.prod:
ms.service: microsoft-intune
ms.subservice: end-user
ms.technology:
ms.assetid: 5c2b65f4-0e0d-4a3c-81c2-af634718023d
searchScope:
 - User help

# optional metadata

ROBOTS:  
#audience:

ms.reviewer: elocholi
ms.suite: ems
#ms.tgt_pltfrm:
ms.custom: intune-enduser
ms.collection: 
---

# Report Company Portal app problems  

Get help or report a problem with the Company Portal app. Company Portal provides you with an email template and helps you upload and send diagnostic details.   

## Get help from support  

1. When you receive the error message, select **Report**. 
2. In the Company Portal app, go to the menu bar and select the **Help** menu > **Save Diagnostic Report**. 
3. Choose a location to save the file. 
4. Go to **Help** > **Send Diagnostic Report** > **Email details**. 
5. Enter your support person's email address in the **To** line.   
6. In the body of the email, describe your experience with the app. Include the steps you took right up until the error occurred. 
7. Send the email, and follow up with your support person if needed.      

## Share diagnostic details 

If Company Portal behaves unexpectedly, you can share the diagnostic details with Microsoft. Microsoft uses the Company Portal-specific logs to learn from and improve upon future products. 

1. Open the Company Portal app.
2. Go to the menu bar and select the **Help** menu > **Send diagnostic report**.  
3. After the logs are uploaded, you'll receive an incident ID. Copy and save the ID for your personal record. 

## Contact information  
To find your organization's contact information, sign in to the Company Portal app or [website](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2010980) and select **Support**.

Commit message:

Tell user to attach file

memdocs/intune/user-help/send-errors-macos.md, after:

---
# required metadata

title: Send errors from your Mac device to your company support | Microsoft Docs
description: Company Portal provides you with an email template and helps you upload the diagnostic details to give your IT team the context to support you. 
keywords:
author: lenewsad

ms.author: lanewsad
manager: dougeby
ms.date: 06/02/2022
ms.topic: end-user-help
ms.prod:
ms.service: microsoft-intune
ms.subservice: end-user
ms.technology:
ms.assetid: 5c2b65f4-0e0d-4a3c-81c2-af634718023d
searchScope:
 - User help

# optional metadata

ROBOTS:  
#audience:

ms.reviewer: elocholi
ms.suite: ems
#ms.tgt_pltfrm:
ms.custom: intune-enduser
ms.collection: 
---

# Report Company Portal app problems  

Get help or report a problem with the Company Portal app. Company Portal provides you with an email template and helps you upload and send diagnostic details.   

## Get help from support  

1. When you receive the error message, select **Report**. 
2. In the Company Portal app, go to the menu bar and select the **Help** menu > **Save Diagnostic Report**. 
3. Choose a location to save the file. 
4. Go to **Help** > **Send Diagnostic Report** > **Email details** to compose a message.
5. Enter your support person's email address in the **To** line.  
6. Attach the diagnostics report file if it wasn't automatically done.   
6. In the body of the email, describe your experience with the app. Include the steps you took right up until the error occurred. 
7. Send the email, and follow up with your support person if needed.      

## Share diagnostic details 

If Company Portal behaves unexpectedly, you can share the diagnostic details with Microsoft. Microsoft uses the Company Portal-specific logs to learn from and improve upon future products. 

1. Open the Company Portal app.
2. Go to the menu bar and select the **Help** menu > **Send diagnostic report**.  
3. After the logs are uploaded, you'll receive an incident ID. Copy and save the ID for your personal record. 

## Contact information  
To find your organization's contact information, sign in to the Company Portal app or [website](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2010980) and select **Support**.
