---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 08/06/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_colleval"></a> Collection evaluation view
<!--6251274-->
We've integrated the functionality of [Collection Evaluation Viewer](../../../../support/ceviewer.md) into the Configuration Manager console. This change provides administrators a central location to view and troubleshoot the [collection evaluation](../../../../clients/manage/collections/collection-evaluation.md) process. The console now displays the following information:

- Historic and live information for full and incremental collection evaluations
- The evaluation queue status
- The time for collection evaluations to complete
- Which collections are currently being evaluated
- The estimated time that a collection evaluation will start and complete

### Add columns for the **Device Collections** node

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to **Assets and Compliance** > **Overview** > **Device Collections**.
1. Add any or all of the following columns prefixed by the type of evaluation:
   - **Evaluation (Full)**
      - **Last Completion Time**: When the last collection evaluation completed  (default column)
      - **Run Time**: How long the last collection evaluation ran, in seconds
      - **Next Refresh Time**: When the next full evaluation starts
      - **Member Changes**: The member changes in the last collection evaluation. Positive numbers mean members were added while negative numbers mean members were removed.
      - **Last Member Change Time**: The most recent time that there was a membership change in the collection evaluation
   - **Evaluation (Incremental)**
      - **Last Evaluation Completion Time**: When the last collection evaluation completed
      - **Run Time**: How long the last collection evaluation ran, in seconds
      - **Member Changes**: The member changes in the last collection evaluation. These changes are either plus (members added) or minus (members removed).
      - **Last Member Change Time**: The most recent time that there was a membership change in the collection evaluation

### View collection summary information

1. Select a collection from the **Device Collections** node.
1. In the **Summary** group pane for collection, review the evaluation-related information.
1. The **Related Objects** give links to view status of the collection in the specific queue under the **Collection Evaluation** node in the **Monitoring** workspace.
   - This action creates a new node is created where you can see the evaluation status for the specific collection.  

:::image type="content" source="../../media/6251274-summary-collection-evaluation.png" alt-text="Evaluation-related information in the summary group for the selected collection" lightbox="../../media/6251274-summary-collection-evaluation.png":::

### Monitoring collection evaluation queues

1. From the **Monitoring** workspace, go to the **Collection Evaluation** node. The following queues are summarized and have their own nodes:
   - **Full Evaluation Queue**: For collections due for full evaluation
   - **Incremental Evaluation Queue**: For collections with incremental evaluation
   - **Manual Evaluation Queue**: For collections that an administrator has manually selected for evaluation from the console
   - **New Evaluation Queue**: For newly created collections
1. From the **Collection Evaluation** node, the total number of collections in queue and queue length is listed as a summary. Additionally, the following status summaries for the evaluation queues are listed:
   - Number of collections in queue
   - Queue length
   - Current evaluation collection
   - Current evaluation started on
   - Current evaluation elapsed (seconds)
1. Selecting the node for a queue brings up detailed status for the queue including: 
   - **Name**: Name of the collection
   - **Collection ID**:  ID of the collection
   - **Estimated Completion Time**: When the evaluation is estimated to complete
   - **Estimated Run Time**: How long the evaluation is estimated to run, in day:hour:minute:second format

   :::image type="content" source="../../media/6251274-manual-evaluation-queue.png" alt-text="Manual Evaluation Queue node with detailed information about the evaluation of each collection" lightbox="../../media/6251274-manual-evaluation-queue.png":::

### <a name="bkmk_try_colleval"></a> Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. Select a collection from the **Device Collections** node. In the information pane, review the evaluation-related status and the **Related objects** links for each evaluation queue's status.
1. Add an evaluation-related column to the collection view.
1. Review the collection evaluation status in **Monitoring** node:
   - Trigger a collection evaluation (such as updating a membership rule), then navigate to the **Collection Evaluation** node to view the status.
   - Trigger a collection evaluation, then view queue status nodes for the different types of evaluation such as the **Manual Evaluation Queue**.
