---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 08/06/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_health"></a> Monitor scenario health

<!--7699463-->

You can now use Configuration Manager to monitor the health of end-to-end scenarios. Monitoring scenario health enhances awareness of system latency and component backlogs which are critical for cloud service-attached features. Configuration Manager simulates activities to expose performance metrics and failure points. These synthetic activities are similar to methods that Microsoft uses to monitor some components in its cloud services. Use this additional data to better understand timeframes for activities. If failures occur, it can help focus your investigation. These synthetic activities are similar to methods that Microsoft uses to monitor some components in its cloud services. Use this additional data to better understand timeframes for activities. If failures occur, it can help focus your investigation.

The first scenario in this release is for **SQL Server Service Broker**. The service broker is a required configuration for the site database. Many of the core subsystems in Configuration Manager use the service broker.

### Prerequisites for scenario health

- **Full administrator** role in Configuration Manager, with scope to the top-level site

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Monitoring** workspace, and select the **Scenario Health** node.

    The list view displays the available scenarios.

    :::image type="content" source="../../media/7699463-scenario-health.png" alt-text="Scenario Health node in console" lightbox="../../media/7699463-scenario-health.png":::

1. Select the **Service Broker Health** scenario, then in the ribbon, select **Show Status**.

    This action opens a window with more information. The top section shows the overall status per site. Select a site, to see more detailed status for that site in the bottom section.

    :::image type="content" source="../../media/7699463-synthetic-activity-status.png" alt-text="Service Broker synthetic activity status" lightbox="../../media/7699463-synthetic-activity-status.png":::

1. From the **Service Broker Health** node, in the ribbon, select **Scenario Settings**. You can configure the settings for this scenario, such as whether it's enabled, and the time interval in minutes.

1. From the **Service Broker Health** node, in the ribbon, select **History**. This node displays the previous instances of the synthetic transaction. Use this history to track the scenario's health over time. From the history node, you can also **Show Status** of a specific instance.

With this health information, you can see how long it takes for SQL Server to exchange messages via the service broker. A longer delay or timeout shows a backlog in the processing queue. A failure indicates a larger problem with the service broker, such as the queue is disabled. Since SQL Server service broker is a core component, issues with it can impact many other scenarios. For example, [client notifications](../../../../clients/manage/client-notification.md), [client status](../../../../clients/manage/monitor-clients.md#about-client-status), and some tenant attach features.
