---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 08/02/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_osd"></a> Improvements to OS deployment

This release includes the following improvements to OS deployment:

- Based on your feedback, configure the default keyboard layout for a boot image. On the **Customization** tab of a boot image, use the new option to **Set default keyboard layout in WinPE**. In the console, if you select a language other than en-us, Configuration Manager still includes en-us in the available input locales. On the device, the initial keyboard layout is the selected locale, but the user can switch the device to en-us if needed.<!-- 4910348 -->

    > [!Tip]
    > The [Set-CMBootImage](/powershell/module/configurationmanager/set-cmbootimage) PowerShell cmdlet now includes a new parameter, `-InputLocale`. For example:
    >
    > ```PowerShell
    > # Set boot image keyboard layout to Russian (Russia)
    > Set-CMBootimage -Id "CM100004" -InputLocale "ru-ru"`
    > ```

- Based on your feedback, the **Run Command Line** step now includes an option to **Output to task sequence variable**. When you enable this option, the task sequence saves the output from the command to a custom task sequence variable that you specify.<!-- 4798352  -->

    > [!Note]  
    > Configuration Manager now limits this output to the last 1000 characters. This change applies to both the **Run Command Line** and **Run Powershell Script**. For more information, see [About task sequence steps](../../../../../osd/understand/task-sequence-steps.md) steps.

- When importing an OS upgrade package, you can **Extract a specific image index from install.wim file of selected upgrade package**. This behavior is similar as with [OS images](../../../../../osd/get-started/manage-operating-system-images.md#BKMK_AddOSImages), except it overwrites the existing install.wim in the OS upgrade package. It extracts the image index to a temporary location, and then moves it into the original source directory.<!-- 4931110 -->

    > [!Warning]  
    > Before you import an OS upgrade package and enable this option, make sure to backup the original source files. Configuration Manager overwrites the install.wim in the source to use the extracted image index.

- Based on your feedback, use the following PowerShell cmdlets to automate the management of [duplicate hardware identifiers](../../../../../osd/deploy-use/use-pxe-to-deploy-windows-over-the-network.md#manage-duplicate-hardware-identifiers):<!-- 4852819 -->
    - New-CMDuplicateHardwareIdGuid
    - Remove-CMDuplicateHardwareIdGuid
    - New-CMDuplicateHardwareIdMacAddress
    - Remove-CMDuplicateHardwareIdMacAddress