memdocs/configmgr/develop/reference/protect/initiateclientoperation-method-in-class-sms_clientoperation.md, before:

---
title: "InitiateClientOperation Method"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
ms.date: "09/20/2016"
ms.prod: "configuration-manager"
ms.technology: configmgr-sdk
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 0ec680b1-981e-4da4-81f0-7eab784ef2dc
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: null
ms.collection: openauth


---
# InitiateClientOperation Method in Class SMS_ClientOperation
The `InitiateClientOperation` Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) class method, in Configuration Manager, that initiates a client operation.   

 The following syntax is simplified from Managed Object Format (MOF) code and defines the method.  

## Syntax  

```  
uint32 InitiateClientOperation   
{  
    [IN]    UInt32 Type  
    [IN]    String TargetCollectionID  
    [IN]    UInt32 RandomizationWindow  
    [IN]    UInt32 TargetResourceIDs[]  
    [OUT]   UInt32 OperationID  
};  
```  

## Parameters  
 `Type`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Qualifiers: [id("0"), in]  

 Type.    

 `TargetCollectionID`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Qualifiers: [id("1"), in]  

 TargetCollectionID.    

 `RandomizationWindow`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Qualifiers: [id("2"), in, optional]  

 RandomizationWindow.    

 `TargetResourceIDs`  
 Data type: `UInt32 Array`  

 Qualifiers: [id("3"), in, optional]  

 TargetResourceIDs.    

 `OperationID`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Qualifiers: [id("4"), out]  

 OperationID.    

## Remarks  

## Requirements  

## Runtime Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Server Runtime Requirements](../../../develop/core/reqs/server-runtime-requirements.md).  

## Development Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Server Development Requirements](../../../develop/core/reqs/server-development-requirements.md).

Commit message:

[bulk] validation: fix missing description issues dh2

memdocs/configmgr/develop/reference/protect/initiateclientoperation-method-in-class-sms_clientoperation.md, after:

---
title: "InitiateClientOperation Method"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
description: "In Configuration Manager, the InitiateClientOperation WMI class method initiates a client operation." 
ms.date: "09/20/2016"
ms.prod: "configuration-manager"
ms.technology: configmgr-sdk
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 0ec680b1-981e-4da4-81f0-7eab784ef2dc
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: null
ms.collection: openauth


---
# InitiateClientOperation Method in Class SMS_ClientOperation
The `InitiateClientOperation` Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) class method, in Configuration Manager, that initiates a client operation.   

 The following syntax is simplified from Managed Object Format (MOF) code and defines the method.  

## Syntax  

```  
uint32 InitiateClientOperation   
{  
    [IN]    UInt32 Type  
    [IN]    String TargetCollectionID  
    [IN]    UInt32 RandomizationWindow  
    [IN]    UInt32 TargetResourceIDs[]  
    [OUT]   UInt32 OperationID  
};  
```  

## Parameters  
 `Type`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Qualifiers: [id("0"), in]  

 Type.    

 `TargetCollectionID`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Qualifiers: [id("1"), in]  

 TargetCollectionID.    

 `RandomizationWindow`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Qualifiers: [id("2"), in, optional]  

 RandomizationWindow.    

 `TargetResourceIDs`  
 Data type: `UInt32 Array`  

 Qualifiers: [id("3"), in, optional]  

 TargetResourceIDs.    

 `OperationID`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Qualifiers: [id("4"), out]  

 OperationID.    

## Remarks  

## Requirements  

## Runtime Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Server Runtime Requirements](../../../develop/core/reqs/server-runtime-requirements.md).  

## Development Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Server Development Requirements](../../../develop/core/reqs/server-development-requirements.md).
