---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 06/12/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_hub"></a> Improvements to Community Hub

<!--4224401 & 3555935-->

Aside from the existing support for scripts and reports, the Community Hub now supports the following objects:  

- PowerShell Scripts
- Reports
- Task sequences
- Applications
- Configuration items  

The hub allows sharing these objects, but doesn't share any package source content associated with the objects. For example, boot images, OS upgrade packages, or driver packages referenced by a task sequence aren't shared.

The hub currently doesn't support object dependencies. For example, if you share app A that is dependent upon app B, it only shares app A with the community. Similarly, if a task sequence includes the Install Application step, the referenced apps aren't shared.

Passwords or other secrets are removed from a task sequence before sharing.

### Updating Hub objects

The hub now manages updates to shared objects. There are two use cases for this scenario:

- You've downloaded an object from the hub. When you visit its entry in the Community Hub, the hub detects that you have an older version of the object. You can update it in your site with the latest version from the hub

- You created an object in your site, and share it in the hub. You then revise it in your site. When you revisit My Hub, because the version changed, you can update the object in the hub.

- Only the original contributor to the object uploaded to the hub can make changes and update their own item.

> [!NOTE]
> The following prerequisites for Community Hub were recently updated in the [1904 Technical Preview documentation](../../technical-preview-1904.md#community-hub-and-github):
> - To download reports, you'll need **Full Administrator** rights in Configuration Manager.
> - To download reports, you need to turn on the option **Use Configuration Manager-generated certificates for HTTP site systems** at the site you're importing into. For more information, see [enhanced HTTP](../../../../plan-design/hierarchy/enhanced-http.md). This prerequisite is also needed in 1906 Technical Preview for updating hub objects.

### Known issues

When clicking on a report folder, the console may crash. To work around this issue, select the **Reports** node above the report folders, then filter or sort for the report.

For more information on Community Hub, including setup prerequisites and necessary permissions, see [Community hub and GitHub](../../technical-preview-1904.md#community-hub-and-github). 

