---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 06/12/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_aad-disco"></a> Azure Active Directory user group discovery

<!--3611956-->
You can now discover user groups and members of those groups from Azure Active directory (Azure AD). Users found in Azure AD groups that haven't been previously discovered will be added as user resources in Configuration Manager. A user group resource record is created when the group is a security group.

### Prerequisites

- Cloud Management [Azure service](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/azure-services-wizard.md)
- Permission to read and search Azure AD groups

### Limitations

Delta discovery for Azure Active Directory user group discovery is currently disabled.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. Go to the **Administration** workspace, expand **Cloud Services**, then click on the **Azure Services** node.
1. Select one of your Azure services, then click **Properties** in the ribbon.
1. In the **Discovery** tab, check the box for **Enable Azure Active Directory Group Discovery**, then click **Settings**.
1. Click **Add** under the **Discovery Scopes** tab.
    - You can modify the **Polling Schedule** in the other tab.
1. Select one or more user groups. You can **Search** by name and choose if you want to see **Security groups only**.
    - You'll be prompted to sign in to Azure when you click **Search** the first time.
1. Click **OK** when you're finished selecting groups.
1. Once discovery finishes running, browse your Azure AD user groups in the **Users** node.

When you onboard the cloud management service, you're given the option to configure Azure AD user group discovery.
