---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 06/12/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_osd"></a> Improvements to OS deployment

This version includes the following improvements to OS deployment:

- Based on your feedback, it's now easier to edit variables when you run a task sequence. After you select a task sequence in the Task Sequence Wizard window, the page to edit task sequence variables includes an **Edit** button. You can use accessible keyboard shortcuts to edit the variables. This change helps in cases where a mouse isn't available.<!-- 4668846 -->

- Based on your feedback, the task sequence sets a new read-only variable **_SMSTSLastContentDownloadLocation**. This variable contains the last location where the task sequence downloaded or attempted to download content. Inspect this variable instead of parsing the client logs.<!-- 2840337 -->

- This release further iterates on the improvement to the Disable BitLocker step from [technical preview version 1905](../../technical-preview-1905.md#bkmk_osd). It resolves the known issue with the client-side functionality, and adds a new variable, **OSDBitLockerRebootCountOverride**. Set this value from 0 to 15, and it overrides the count set by the step or the OSDBitlockerRebootCount variable. While the other methods only accept values 1 to 15, if you set this variable to 0, BitLocker remains disabled indefinitely. This new variable is useful when the task sequence sets one value, but you want to set a separate value on a per-device or per-collection basis.<!-- 4512937 -->
