---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 02/27/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_bitlocker"></a> Improvements to BitLocker management

<!--5925660-->

In [Configuration Manager current branch version 1910](../../../../../protect/plan-design/bitlocker-management.md#prerequisites), to integrate the BitLocker recovery service you had to HTTPS-enable a management point. The HTTPS connection is necessary to encrypt the recovery keys across the network from the Configuration Manager client to the management point. Configuring the management point and all clients for HTTPS can be challenging for many customers.

Starting in this version, the HTTPS requirement is for the IIS website that hosts the recovery service, not the entire management point role. This change relaxes the certificate requirements, and still encrypts the recovery keys in transit.

Now the **Client connections** property of the management point can be **HTTP** or **HTTPS**. If the management point is configured for **HTTP**, to support the BitLocker recovery service:

1. Acquire a server authentication certificate. Bind the certificate to the IIS website on the management point that hosts the BitLocker recovery service.

2. Configure clients to trust the server authentication certificate. There are two methods to accomplish this trust:

    - Use a certificate from a public and globally trusted certificate provider. Windows clients include trusted root certificate authorities (CAs) from these providers. By using a server authentication certificate that's issued by one of these providers, your clients should automatically trust it.

    - Use a certificate issued by a CA from your organization's public key infrastructure (PKI). Most PKI implementations add the trusted root CAs to Windows clients. For example, using Active Directory Certificate Services with group policy. If you issue the server authentication certificate from a CA that your clients don't automatically trust, add the CA trusted root certificate to clients.

> [!TIP]
> The only clients that need to communicate with the recovery service are those clients that you plan to target with a BitLocker management policy and includes a **Client Management** rule .

On the client, use the **BitLockerManagementHandler.log** to troubleshoot this connection. For connectivity to the recovery service, the log shows the URL that the client is using. Locate an entry that starts with `Checking for Recovery Service at`.
