memdocs/autopilot/tutorial/existing-devices/deploy-autopilot-task-sequence.md, before:

---
title: Windows Autopilot deployment for existing devices in Intune and Configuration Manager - Step 7 of 10 - Deploy Autopilot task sequence to collection in Configuration Manager
description: Windows Autopilot deployment for existing devices in Intune and Configuration Manager - Step 7 of 10 - Deploy Autopilot task sequence to collection in Configuration Manager.
ms.prod: windows-client
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: frankroj
ms.author: frankroj
ms.reviewer: jubaptis
manager: aaroncz
ms.date: 04/11/2023
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.collection: 
  - tier1
  - highpri
ms.technology: itpro-deploy
appliesto:
  - ✅ <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/release-health/supported-versions-windows-client" target="_blank">Windows 11</a>
  - ✅ <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/release-health/supported-versions-windows-client" target="_blank">Windows 10</a>
---

# Windows Autopilot deployment for existing devices: Deploy Autopilot task sequence to collection in Configuration Manager

Autopilot user-driven Azure AD join steps:
- Step 1: [Set up a Windows Autopilot deployment](setup-autopilot-deployment.md)
- Step 2: [Install required modules to obtain Autopilot profile(s) from Intune](install-modules.md)
- Step 3: [Create JSON file for Autopilot profile(s)](create-json-file.md)
- Step 4: [Create and distribute package for JSON file in Configuration Manager](create-json-package.md)
- Step 5: [Create Autopilot task sequence in Configuration Manager](create-autopilot-task-sequence.md)
- Step 6: [Create collection in Configuration Manager](create-collection.md)
> [!div class="checklist"]
> - **Step 7: Deploy Autopilot task sequence to collection in Configuration Manager**
- Step 8: [Speed up the deployment process (optional)](speed-up-deployment.md)
- Step 9: [Run Autopilot task sequence on device](run-autopilot-task-sequence.md)
- Step 10: [Register device for Windows Autopilot](register-device.md)

For an overview of the Windows Autopilot deployment for existing devices workflow, see [Windows Autopilot deployment for existing devices in Intune and Configuration Manager](existing-devices-workflow.md)

## Next step: Speed up the deployment process (optional)

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Step 8: Speed up the deployment process (optional)](speed-up-deployment.md)

If you rather use an unmodified out of box Autopilot task sequence created by the **Create Task Sequence Wizard** in Configuration Manager, then skip to [Step 9: Run Autopilot task sequence on device](run-autopilot-task-sequence.md).

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Step 9: Run Autopilot task sequence on device](run-autopilot-task-sequence.md)

## More information

For more information on deploying the Autopilot task sequence, see the following article(s):

- [Deploy the Autopilot task sequence](/mem/autopilot/existing-devices#deploy-the-autopilot-task-sequence)

Commit message:

Autopilot for existing devices step by step 6

memdocs/autopilot/tutorial/existing-devices/deploy-autopilot-task-sequence.md, after:

---
title: Windows Autopilot deployment for existing devices in Intune and Configuration Manager - Step 7 of 10 - Deploy Autopilot task sequence to collection in Configuration Manager
description: Windows Autopilot deployment for existing devices in Intune and Configuration Manager - Step 7 of 10 - Deploy Autopilot task sequence to collection in Configuration Manager.
ms.prod: windows-client
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: frankroj
ms.author: frankroj
ms.reviewer: jubaptis
manager: aaroncz
ms.date: 04/11/2023
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.collection: 
  - tier1
  - highpri
ms.technology: itpro-deploy
appliesto:
  - ✅ <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/release-health/supported-versions-windows-client" target="_blank">Windows 11</a>
  - ✅ <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/release-health/supported-versions-windows-client" target="_blank">Windows 10</a>
---

# Windows Autopilot deployment for existing devices: Deploy Autopilot task sequence to collection in Configuration Manager

Autopilot user-driven Azure AD join steps:
- Step 1: [Set up a Windows Autopilot deployment](setup-autopilot-deployment.md)
- Step 2: [Install required modules to obtain Autopilot profile(s) from Intune](install-modules.md)
- Step 3: [Create JSON file for Autopilot profile(s)](create-json-file.md)
- Step 4: [Create and distribute package for JSON file in Configuration Manager](create-json-package.md)
- Step 5: [Create Autopilot task sequence in Configuration Manager](create-autopilot-task-sequence.md)
- Step 6: [Create collection in Configuration Manager](create-collection.md)
> [!div class="checklist"]
> - **Step 7: Deploy Autopilot task sequence to collection in Configuration Manager**
- Step 8: [Speed up the deployment process (optional)](speed-up-deployment.md)
- Step 9: [Run Autopilot task sequence on device](run-autopilot-task-sequence.md)
- Step 10: [Register device for Windows Autopilot](register-device.md)

For an overview of the Windows Autopilot deployment for existing devices workflow, see [Windows Autopilot deployment for existing devices in Intune and Configuration Manager](existing-devices-workflow.md)

## Deploy Autopilot task sequence to collection in Configuration Manager

## Next step: Speed up the deployment process (optional)

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Step 8: Speed up the deployment process (optional)](speed-up-deployment.md)

If you rather use an unmodified out of box Autopilot task sequence created by the **Create Task Sequence Wizard** in Configuration Manager, then skip to [Step 9: Run Autopilot task sequence on device](run-autopilot-task-sequence.md).

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Step 9: Run Autopilot task sequence on device](run-autopilot-task-sequence.md)

## More information

For more information on deploying the Autopilot task sequence, see the following article(s):

- [Deploy the Autopilot task sequence](/mem/autopilot/existing-devices#deploy-the-autopilot-task-sequence)
