---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 09/12/2018
---

## <a name="bkmk_hub"></a> Improvement to Community Hub
<!--1358926-->

The [Community Hub](../capabilities-in-technical-preview-1807.md#bkmk_hub) is now accepting contributions from a limited community of Microsoft employees and some Microsoft MVPs. The **Home** page of the hub shows all available objects reviewed by Microsoft. **My Hub** shows objects that the current user has contributed to the hub. 


### Try it out!

> [!Note]  
> At this time, only Azure AD users from the Microsoft tenant can upload content. For more information, see [Known issues](#bkmk_hub-ki).  

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. From the Community Hub in the Configuration Manager console, click **My Hub**.  

2. Sign in with your Azure AD credentials.  

3. Click **Add an item**.  

4. Select the type of object. and then click **Browse**. Open the exported script or configuration item.  

5. Specify a **Name** and **Description** to display in the Community Hub. Avoid generic names and descriptions. Use short, descriptive terms. Other administrators in the community use these values to find your object in the hub, and understand its use.  

6. If you want to publish your item in the hub but not yet share with the community, enable the option to **Keep it private**.  

7. Click **OK** to submit your object for review by Microsoft.  


### <a name="bkmk_hub-ki"></a> Known issues

- The hub is currently only authenticating Azure AD users from the Microsoft tenant. This tenant includes Microsoft employees such as Premier Field Engineers or Microsoft Consulting Services. Some community MVPs have Microsoft vendor accounts, which they can use to contribute.  

- You can't delete objects that you've contributed to the hub.  

> [!Important]  
> While this feature is in technical preview, don't use the hub to store critical objects without any backup copy. During the ongoing development process, Microsoft plans to remove the contents of the hub.


