memdocs/autopilot/profiles.md, before:

---
title: Configure Autopilot profiles
description: Learn how to configure device profiles for Windows Autopilot deployment.
ms.technology: itpro-deploy
ms.prod: windows-client
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: frankroj
ms.author: frankroj
ms.reviewer: jubaptis
manager: aaroncz
ms.date: 03/10/2023
ms.collection: 
  - M365-modern-desktop
  - highpri
  - tier1
ms.topic: how-to
---

# Configure Autopilot profiles

*Applies to:*

- Windows 11
- Windows 10
- Windows Holographic, version 2004 or later

After you have [created a device group](enrollment-autopilot.md), you can apply a Windows Autopilot deployment profile to each device in the group.  Deployment profiles determine the deployment mode, and customize the OOBE for your end users.

You can create Autopilot profiles through:

1. [Microsoft Admin Center](https://admin.microsoft.com/)
2. [Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431)
3. [Intune graph](/graph/api/resources/intune-graph-overview)

For Intune managed devices, pre-provisioning, self-deploying, and co-management profiles can only be created and assigned in Intune.

## Create an Autopilot deployment profile

Autopilot deployment profiles are used to configure the Autopilot devices. You can create up to 350 profiles per tenant.

1. In the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431), choose **Devices** > **Windows** > **Windows enrollment** > **Deployment Profiles** > **Create Profile** > **Windows PC** or **HoloLens**. This article explains how to set up Autopilot for Windows PC. For more information about Autopilot and HoloLens, see [Windows Autopilot for HoloLens 2](/hololens/hololens2-autopilot).
2. On the **Basics** page, type a **Name** and optional **Description**.

    ![Screenshot of Basics page.](images/create-profile-basics.png)

3. If you want all devices in the assigned groups to automatically register to Autopilot, set **Convert all targeted devices to Autopilot** to **Yes**. All corporate owned, non-Autopilot devices in assigned groups will register with the Autopilot deployment service. Personally owned devices won't be registered to Autopilot. Allow 48 hours for the registration to be processed. When the device is unenrolled and reset, Autopilot will enroll it. After a device is registered in this way, disabling this setting or removing the profile assignment won't remove the device from the Autopilot deployment service. You must instead [remove the device directly](add-devices.md#delete-autopilot-devices).

    > [!NOTE]
    > Using the setting **Converting all targeted devices to Autopilot** doesn't automatically convert existing hybrid Azure AD device in the assigned group(s) into an Azure AD device. The setting only registers the devices in the assigned group(s) for the Autopilot service.

4. Select **Next**.
5. On the **Out-of-box experience (OOBE)** page, for **Deployment mode**, choose one of these two options:
    - **User-driven**: Devices with this profile are associated with the user enrolling the device. User credentials are required to enroll the device.
    - **Self-deploying (preview)**: Devices with this profile aren't associated with the user enrolling the device. User credentials aren't required to enroll the device. When a device has no user associated with it, user-based compliance policies don't apply to it. When using self-deploying mode, only compliance policies targeting the device will be applied.

    ![Screenshot of OOBE page.](images/create-profile-out-of-box.png)

    > [!NOTE]
    > Options that appear dimmed or shaded are currently not supported by the selected deployment mode.

6. In the **Join to Azure AD as** box, choose **Azure AD joined**.
7. Configure the following options:
    - **Microsoft Software License Terms**: Choose if you want to show the EULA to users.
    - **Privacy settings**: Choose if you want to show privacy settings to users.
      > [!IMPORTANT]
      > The default value for the Diagnostic Data setting varies between Windows versions. For devices running Windows 10, version 1903, the default value is set to Full during the out-of-box experience. For more information, see [Windows Diagnostics Data](/windows/privacy/windows-diagnostic-data) <br>

    - **Hide change account options**: Choose **Hide** to prevent change account options from displaying on the company sign-in and domain error pages. This option requires [company branding to be configured in Azure Active Directory](/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/customize-branding).
    - **User account type**: Choose the user's account type (**Administrator** or **Standard** user). We allow the user joining the device to be a local Administrator by adding them to the local Admin group. We don't enable the user as the default administrator on the device.
    - **Allow pre-provisioned deployment** ([Prerequisites](pre-provision.md#prerequisites)): Choose **Yes** to allow pre-provisioning support.

      > [!NOTE]
      > The **pre-provision** feature use to be know as **white glove**. References to **White Glove OOBE** in Intune refer to the Autopilot [pre-provisioning](pre-provision.md) process. <br><br>When setting this to **No** (blocking pre-provisioning), be aware that it will still be possible to press the Windows key five times during OOBE to invoke pre-provisioning and progress down that path. However, Intune will subsequently enforce this setting and you will encounter a red screen indicating pre-provisioning failure with error code 0x80180005.

    - **Language (Region)**: Choose the language to use for the device. This option is available in all Deployment modes.
    - **Automatically configure keyboard**: If a **Language (Region)** is selected, choose **Yes** to skip the keyboard selection page. This option is available in all Deployment modes.

        > [!NOTE]
        > Language and keyboard settings requires ethernet connectivity. Wi-fi connectivity isn't supported because of the requirement to choose a language, locale, and keyboard to make that Wi-fi connection.

    - **Apply device name template** (requires Azure AD join type): Choose **Yes** to create a template to use when naming a device during enrollment. Names must be 15 characters or less, and can have letters, numbers, and hyphens. Names can't be all numbers. Use the [%SERIAL% macro](/windows/client-management/mdm/accounts-csp) to add a hardware-specific serial number. Or, use the [%RAND:x% macro](/windows/client-management/mdm/accounts-csp) to add a random string of numbers, where x equals the number of digits to add. You can only provide a pre-fix for hybrid devices in a [domain join profile](./windows-autopilot-hybrid.md#create-and-assign-a-domain-join-profile).
  
8. Select **Next**.
9. On the **Assignments** page, choose **Selected groups** for **Assign to**.

    ![Screenshot of Assignments page.](images/create-profile-assignments.png)

10. Choose **Select groups to include**, and choose the groups you want to include in this profile.
11. If you want to exclude any groups, choose **Select groups to exclude**, and choose the groups you want to exclude.
12. Select **Next**.
13. On the **Review + Create** page, choose **Create** to create the profile.

    ![Screenshot of Review page.](images/create-profile-review.png)

> [!NOTE]
> Intune will periodically check for new devices in the assigned groups, and then begin the process of assigning profiles to those devices. Due to several different factors involved in the process of Autopilot profile assignment, an estimated time for the assignment can vary from scenario to scenario. These factors can include AAD groups, membership rules, hash of a device, Intune and Autopilot service, and internet connection. The assignment time will vary depending on all the factors and variables involved in a specific scenario.<br>
<br>
Before deploying a device, ensure that this process has completed. You can check under **Devices** > **Windows** > **Windows enrollment** > **Devices** (under **Windows Autopilot Deployment Program** where you should see the profile status change from "Unassigned" to "Assigning" and finally to "Assigned."

## Edit an Autopilot deployment profile

After you've created an Autopilot deployment profile, you can edit certain parts of the deployment profile.

1. In the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431), choose **Devices** > **Windows** > **Windows enrollment** > **Deployment profiles**.
2. Select the profile you would like to edit.
3. Select **Properties** on the left to change the name or description of the deployment profile. Select **Save** after you make changes.
4. Select **Settings** to make changes to the OOBE settings. Select **Save** after you make changes.

    > [!NOTE]
    > Changes to the profile are applied to devices assigned to that profile. However, the updated profile won't be applied to a device that has already enrolled in Intune until after the device is reset and reenrolled.

If a device is registered in Autopilot and a profile is not assigned, it will receive the default Autopilot profile. If you do not want a device to go through Autopilot, you must remove the Autopilot registration.

## Alerts for Windows Autopilot unassigned devices
<!-- 163236 -->

Alerts will show how many Autopilot program devices don't have Autopilot deployment profiles. Use the information in the alert to create profiles and assign them to the unassigned devices. When you click the alert, you see a full list of Windows Autopilot devices and detailed information about them.

To see alerts for unassigned devices, in the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431), choose **Devices** > **Overview** > **Enrollment alerts** > **Unassigned devices**.

## Autopilot deployments report

You can see details on each device deployed through Windows Autopilot.
To see the report, go to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431), choose **Devices** > **Monitor** > **Autopilot deployments**.
The data is available for 30 days after deployment.

This report is in preview. Device deployment records are currently triggered only by new Intune enrollment events. Deployments that don't trigger a new Intune enrollment won't appear this report. This case includes any kind of reset that maintains enrollment and the user portion of Autopilot pre-provisioning.

## Related topics

[Profile download](troubleshooting.md#profile-download)

[Registering devices](add-devices.md)

Commit message:

Update Autopilot "Profile status" behavior
If the AP profile is assigned to a specific created group, it will change from "Unassigned" to "Assigning" and finally to "Assigned."

But if assigned to "All Devices" the "Profile status" is changing immediately to "Assigned"

memdocs/autopilot/profiles.md, after:

---
title: Configure Autopilot profiles
description: Learn how to configure device profiles for Windows Autopilot deployment.
ms.technology: itpro-deploy
ms.prod: windows-client
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: frankroj
ms.author: frankroj
ms.reviewer: jubaptis
manager: aaroncz
ms.date: 03/10/2023
ms.collection: 
  - M365-modern-desktop
  - highpri
  - tier1
ms.topic: how-to
---

# Configure Autopilot profiles

*Applies to:*

- Windows 11
- Windows 10
- Windows Holographic, version 2004 or later

After you have [created a device group](enrollment-autopilot.md), you can apply a Windows Autopilot deployment profile to each device in the group.  Deployment profiles determine the deployment mode, and customize the OOBE for your end users.

You can create Autopilot profiles through:

1. [Microsoft Admin Center](https://admin.microsoft.com/)
2. [Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431)
3. [Intune graph](/graph/api/resources/intune-graph-overview)

For Intune managed devices, pre-provisioning, self-deploying, and co-management profiles can only be created and assigned in Intune.

## Create an Autopilot deployment profile

Autopilot deployment profiles are used to configure the Autopilot devices. You can create up to 350 profiles per tenant.

1. In the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431), choose **Devices** > **Windows** > **Windows enrollment** > **Deployment Profiles** > **Create Profile** > **Windows PC** or **HoloLens**. This article explains how to set up Autopilot for Windows PC. For more information about Autopilot and HoloLens, see [Windows Autopilot for HoloLens 2](/hololens/hololens2-autopilot).
2. On the **Basics** page, type a **Name** and optional **Description**.

    ![Screenshot of Basics page.](images/create-profile-basics.png)

3. If you want all devices in the assigned groups to automatically register to Autopilot, set **Convert all targeted devices to Autopilot** to **Yes**. All corporate owned, non-Autopilot devices in assigned groups will register with the Autopilot deployment service. Personally owned devices won't be registered to Autopilot. Allow 48 hours for the registration to be processed. When the device is unenrolled and reset, Autopilot will enroll it. After a device is registered in this way, disabling this setting or removing the profile assignment won't remove the device from the Autopilot deployment service. You must instead [remove the device directly](add-devices.md#delete-autopilot-devices).

    > [!NOTE]
    > Using the setting **Converting all targeted devices to Autopilot** doesn't automatically convert existing hybrid Azure AD device in the assigned group(s) into an Azure AD device. The setting only registers the devices in the assigned group(s) for the Autopilot service.

4. Select **Next**.
5. On the **Out-of-box experience (OOBE)** page, for **Deployment mode**, choose one of these two options:
    - **User-driven**: Devices with this profile are associated with the user enrolling the device. User credentials are required to enroll the device.
    - **Self-deploying (preview)**: Devices with this profile aren't associated with the user enrolling the device. User credentials aren't required to enroll the device. When a device has no user associated with it, user-based compliance policies don't apply to it. When using self-deploying mode, only compliance policies targeting the device will be applied.

    ![Screenshot of OOBE page.](images/create-profile-out-of-box.png)

    > [!NOTE]
    > Options that appear dimmed or shaded are currently not supported by the selected deployment mode.

6. In the **Join to Azure AD as** box, choose **Azure AD joined**.
7. Configure the following options:
    - **Microsoft Software License Terms**: Choose if you want to show the EULA to users.
    - **Privacy settings**: Choose if you want to show privacy settings to users.
      > [!IMPORTANT]
      > The default value for the Diagnostic Data setting varies between Windows versions. For devices running Windows 10, version 1903, the default value is set to Full during the out-of-box experience. For more information, see [Windows Diagnostics Data](/windows/privacy/windows-diagnostic-data) <br>

    - **Hide change account options**: Choose **Hide** to prevent change account options from displaying on the company sign-in and domain error pages. This option requires [company branding to be configured in Azure Active Directory](/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/customize-branding).
    - **User account type**: Choose the user's account type (**Administrator** or **Standard** user). We allow the user joining the device to be a local Administrator by adding them to the local Admin group. We don't enable the user as the default administrator on the device.
    - **Allow pre-provisioned deployment** ([Prerequisites](pre-provision.md#prerequisites)): Choose **Yes** to allow pre-provisioning support.

      > [!NOTE]
      > The **pre-provision** feature use to be know as **white glove**. References to **White Glove OOBE** in Intune refer to the Autopilot [pre-provisioning](pre-provision.md) process. <br><br>When setting this to **No** (blocking pre-provisioning), be aware that it will still be possible to press the Windows key five times during OOBE to invoke pre-provisioning and progress down that path. However, Intune will subsequently enforce this setting and you will encounter a red screen indicating pre-provisioning failure with error code 0x80180005.

    - **Language (Region)**: Choose the language to use for the device. This option is available in all Deployment modes.
    - **Automatically configure keyboard**: If a **Language (Region)** is selected, choose **Yes** to skip the keyboard selection page. This option is available in all Deployment modes.

        > [!NOTE]
        > Language and keyboard settings requires ethernet connectivity. Wi-fi connectivity isn't supported because of the requirement to choose a language, locale, and keyboard to make that Wi-fi connection.

    - **Apply device name template** (requires Azure AD join type): Choose **Yes** to create a template to use when naming a device during enrollment. Names must be 15 characters or less, and can have letters, numbers, and hyphens. Names can't be all numbers. Use the [%SERIAL% macro](/windows/client-management/mdm/accounts-csp) to add a hardware-specific serial number. Or, use the [%RAND:x% macro](/windows/client-management/mdm/accounts-csp) to add a random string of numbers, where x equals the number of digits to add. You can only provide a pre-fix for hybrid devices in a [domain join profile](./windows-autopilot-hybrid.md#create-and-assign-a-domain-join-profile).
  
8. Select **Next**.
9. On the **Assignments** page, choose **Selected groups** for **Assign to**.

    ![Screenshot of Assignments page.](images/create-profile-assignments.png)

10. Choose **Select groups to include**, and choose the groups you want to include in this profile.
11. If you want to exclude any groups, choose **Select groups to exclude**, and choose the groups you want to exclude.
12. Select **Next**.
13. On the **Review + Create** page, choose **Create** to create the profile.

    ![Screenshot of Review page.](images/create-profile-review.png)

> [!NOTE]
> Intune will periodically check for new devices in the assigned groups, and then begin the process of assigning profiles to those devices. Due to several different factors involved in the process of Autopilot profile assignment, an estimated time for the assignment can vary from scenario to scenario. These factors can include AAD groups, membership rules, hash of a device, Intune and Autopilot service, and internet connection. The assignment time will vary depending on all the factors and variables involved in a specific scenario.<br>
<br>
Before deploying a device, ensure that this process has completed. You can check under **Devices** > **Windows** > **Windows enrollment** > **Devices** (under **Windows Autopilot Deployment Program** where you should see the profile status change from "Unassigned" to "Assigning" and finally to "Assigned."

However, in the case in which you assign the Autopilot profile to "All Devices" group, you will notice that the "Profile status" has changed immediately to "Assigned", in this case you will need to wait until the "Date Assigned" is also populated before proceeding with the deployment.

## Edit an Autopilot deployment profile

After you've created an Autopilot deployment profile, you can edit certain parts of the deployment profile.

1. In the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431), choose **Devices** > **Windows** > **Windows enrollment** > **Deployment profiles**.
2. Select the profile you would like to edit.
3. Select **Properties** on the left to change the name or description of the deployment profile. Select **Save** after you make changes.
4. Select **Settings** to make changes to the OOBE settings. Select **Save** after you make changes.

    > [!NOTE]
    > Changes to the profile are applied to devices assigned to that profile. However, the updated profile won't be applied to a device that has already enrolled in Intune until after the device is reset and reenrolled.

If a device is registered in Autopilot and a profile is not assigned, it will receive the default Autopilot profile. If you do not want a device to go through Autopilot, you must remove the Autopilot registration.

## Alerts for Windows Autopilot unassigned devices
<!-- 163236 -->

Alerts will show how many Autopilot program devices don't have Autopilot deployment profiles. Use the information in the alert to create profiles and assign them to the unassigned devices. When you click the alert, you see a full list of Windows Autopilot devices and detailed information about them.

To see alerts for unassigned devices, in the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431), choose **Devices** > **Overview** > **Enrollment alerts** > **Unassigned devices**.

## Autopilot deployments report

You can see details on each device deployed through Windows Autopilot.
To see the report, go to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431), choose **Devices** > **Monitor** > **Autopilot deployments**.
The data is available for 30 days after deployment.

This report is in preview. Device deployment records are currently triggered only by new Intune enrollment events. Deployments that don't trigger a new Intune enrollment won't appear this report. This case includes any kind of reset that maintains enrollment and the user portion of Autopilot pre-provisioning.

## Related topics

[Profile download](troubleshooting.md#profile-download)

[Registering devices](add-devices.md)
