memdocs/autopilot/troubleshoot-device-enrollment.md, before:

---
title: Troubleshoot Autopilot device import and enrollment
description: Troubleshoot issues that can occur during Autopilot device import and enrollment.
ms.technology: itpro-deploy
ms.prod: windows-client
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: frankroj
ms.author: frankroj
ms.reviewer: jubaptis
manager: aaroncz
ms.date: 11/17/2022
ms.collection: 
  - M365-modern-desktop
  - highpri
  - tier2
ms.topic: troubleshooting
---


# Troubleshoot Autopilot device import and enrollment

*Applies to:*

- Windows 11
- Windows 10

See the following sections for information about issues that can occur when importing and enrolling devices into Intune.

## Error code 0x80180014 when re-enrolling using self-deployment or pre-provisioning mode

After the first Autopilot deployment, devices with a targeted Autopilot self-deployment mode or pre-provisioning mode profile can't automatically re-enroll using Autopilot. If you try to redeploy the device, then the `0x80180014` error code is returned:

:::image type="content" source="./images/troubleshoot-device-enrollment/0x80180014-error-code-enrollment-status-page.png" alt-text="Enrollment status page shows 0x80180014 error code on devices using self-deployment mode or pre-provisioning mode.":::

:::image type="content" source="./images/troubleshoot-device-enrollment/0x80180014-error-code-pre-provisioning-page.png" alt-text="Pre-provisioning page shows 0x80180014 error code on devices using self-deployment mode or pre-provisioning mode.":::

The ETW logs may show the following error:

`MDM Enroll: Server Returned Fault/Code/Subcode/Value=(DeviceNotSupported) Fault/Reason/Text=(Enrollment blocked for AP device by SDM One Time Limit Check)`

### Cause A for error code 0x80180014

Microsoft Endpoint Manager changed the Windows Autopilot self-deployment mode (Public Preview) and Pre-Provisioning mode (formerly known as white glove, in Public Preview) experience.
To reuse a device, you must delete the device record created by Intune.

This change impacts all Autopilot deployments that use the self-deployment or pre-provisioning mode. This change impacts devices when they're reused, reset, or when redeploying a profile.

### Resolution A for error code 0x80180014

To redeploy the device through Autopilot:

1. Delete the device record in Intune. For the specific steps, see [Delete devices from the Intune admin center](../intune/remote-actions/devices-wipe.md#delete-devices-from-the-intune-admin-center).
2. Redeploy the Autopilot deployment profile.

### Cause B for error code 0x80180014

Windows MDM enrollment is disabled in your Intune tenant.

### Resolution B for error code 0x80180014

To fix this issue in a stand-alone Intune environment, follow these steps:

1. In the Microsoft Intune admin center, chooses **Devices** > **Enrollment restrictions**, and then choose a device type restriction.
1. Choose **Properties** > **Edit** next to Platform settings. Then select **Allow for Windows (MDM)**.
1. Select **Review** and then **Save**.

## Device import issues

### Cannot convert device hash error

- Clicking Import after selecting CSV does nothing 
- A **400** error appears in network trace with error body **"Cannot convert the literal '[DEVICEHASH]' to the expected type 'Edm.Binary'**

#### Cause of Cannot convert device hash error

This error points to the device hash being incorrectly formatted. Anything that corrupts the collected hash can cause this error. One possibility is that the hash itself (even if it's valid) fails to be decoded.

#### Explanation of Cannot convert device hash error

The device hash is Base64. At the device level, it's encoded as unpadded Base64, but Autopilot expects padded Base64. Usually, the payload doesn't require padding and the process works. Sometimes, however, the payload doesn't line up cleanly and padding is necessary. In this case, the above error is displayed. PowerShell's Base64 decoder also expects padded Base64, so we can use this decoder to validate that the hash is properly padded.

The "A" characters at the end of the hash are effectively empty data. Each character in Base64 is 6 bits, A in Base64 is 6 bits equal to 0. Deleting or adding **A**s at the end doesn't change the actual payload data.

#### Resolution for Cannot convert device hash error

To fix this issue, the hash needs to be modified, then the new value tested, until PowerShell succeeds in decoding the hash. The result is mostly illegible, which is fine. We're just looking for it to not throw the error "Invalid length for a Base-64 char array or string". 

To test the base64, you can use the following PowerShell:
```powershell
[System.Text.Encoding]::ascii.getstring( [System.Convert]::FromBase64String("DEVICE HASH"))
```

So, as an example (this example isn't a device hash, but it's misaligned unpadded Base64 so it's good for testing):
```powershell
[System.Text.Encoding]::ascii.getstring( [System.Convert]::FromBase64String("Q29udG9zbwAAA"))
```

Now for the padding rules. The padding character is "=". The padding character can only be at the end of the hash, and there can only be a maximum of two padding characters. Here's the basic logic.

- Does decoding the hash fail?
 - Yes: Are the last two characters "="?
   - Yes: Replace both "=" with a single "A" character, then try again
   - No: Add another "=" character at the end, then try again
 - No: That hash is valid

Looping the above logic on the previous example hash, we get the following permutations:
- Q29udG9zbwAAA
- Q29udG9zbwAAA=
- Q29udG9zbwAAA==
- Q29udG9zbwAAAA
- Q29udG9zbwAAAA=
- **Q29udG9zbwAAAA==** (This one has valid padding)

Replace the collected hash with this new padded hash then try to import again.

## Autopilot profile not applied after reimaging to an older OS version

If you enroll a device with Windows Update [KB5015878](https://support.microsoft.com/topic/july-26-2022-kb5015878-os-builds-19042-1865-19043-1865-and-19044-1865-preview-549f5551-fcc5-4fee-8811-c5df12e04d40) or later on Windows 10 or with Windows Update [KB5017383](https://support.microsoft.com/topic/september-20-2022-kb5017383-os-build-22000-1042-preview-62753265-68e9-45d2-adcb-f996bf3ad393) or later on Windows 11 and then reimage to an older OS version, the Autopilot profile isn't applied. The device would need to be re-registered to complete a successful Autopilot deployment. You may see the message **Fix pending** in the Autopilot devices page, which indicates that there was a hardware change on the device.

### Cause of Autopilot profile not applied after reimaging to an older OS version

The Autopilot profile not applying after a device is reimaged to an older OS version is expected behavior when there's a hardware change on the device. For more information, see [Return of key functionality for Windows Autopilot sign-in and deployment experience](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/intune-customer-success/return-of-key-functionality-for-windows-autopilot-sign-in-and/ba-p/3583130).

### Resolution of Autopilot profile not applied after reimaging to an older OS version

When a device is reimaged to an older OS version after a hardware change on a device, deregister and re-register the device.

## Intune enrollment issues

See [this knowledge base article](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4089533/troubleshooting-windows-device-enrollment-problems-in-microsoft-intune) for assistance with Intune enrollment issues. Common issues can include"
- incorrect or missing licenses assigned to the user.
- too many devices enrolled for the user.

Error code 80180018 is typically reported on an error page titled **Something went wrong**. This error means that the MDM enrollment failed.

If Autopilot Reset fails immediately with the error **Ran into trouble. Please sign in with an administrator account to see why and reset manually**, see [Troubleshoot Autopilot Reset](/education/windows/autopilot-reset#troubleshoot-autopilot-reset) for more help.

## Related articles

[Windows Autopilot - known issues](known-issues.md)<br>
[Diagnose MDM failures in Windows 10](/windows/client-management/mdm/diagnose-mdm-failures-in-windows-10)<br>

Commit message:

Update articles that contain deregister information

memdocs/autopilot/troubleshoot-device-enrollment.md, after:

---
title: Troubleshoot Autopilot device import and enrollment
description: Troubleshoot issues that can occur during Autopilot device import and enrollment.
ms.technology: itpro-deploy
ms.prod: windows-client
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: frankroj
ms.author: frankroj
ms.reviewer: jubaptis
manager: aaroncz
ms.date: 05/24/2023
ms.collection: 
  - M365-modern-desktop
  - highpri
  - tier2
ms.topic: troubleshooting
---


# Troubleshoot Autopilot device import and enrollment

*Applies to:*

- Windows 11
- Windows 10

See the following sections for information about issues that can occur when importing and enrolling devices into Intune.

## Error code 0x80180014 when re-enrolling using self-deployment or pre-provisioning mode

After the first Autopilot deployment, devices with a targeted Autopilot self-deployment mode or pre-provisioning mode profile can't automatically re-enroll using Autopilot. If you try to redeploy the device, then the `0x80180014` error code is returned:

:::image type="content" source="./images/troubleshoot-device-enrollment/0x80180014-error-code-enrollment-status-page.png" alt-text="Enrollment status page shows 0x80180014 error code on devices using self-deployment mode or pre-provisioning mode.":::

:::image type="content" source="./images/troubleshoot-device-enrollment/0x80180014-error-code-pre-provisioning-page.png" alt-text="Pre-provisioning page shows 0x80180014 error code on devices using self-deployment mode or pre-provisioning mode.":::

The ETW logs may show the following error:

`MDM Enroll: Server Returned Fault/Code/Subcode/Value=(DeviceNotSupported) Fault/Reason/Text=(Enrollment blocked for AP device by SDM One Time Limit Check)`

### Cause A for error code 0x80180014

Microsoft Endpoint Manager changed the Windows Autopilot self-deployment mode (Public Preview) and Pre-Provisioning mode (formerly known as white glove, in Public Preview) experience.
To reuse a device, you must delete the device record created by Intune.

This change impacts all Autopilot deployments that use the self-deployment or pre-provisioning mode. This change impacts devices when they're reused, reset, or when redeploying a profile.

### Resolution A for error code 0x80180014

To redeploy the device through Autopilot:

1. Delete the device record in Intune. For the specific steps, see [Delete devices from the Intune admin center](../intune/remote-actions/devices-wipe.md#delete-devices-from-the-intune-admin-center).
2. Redeploy the Autopilot deployment profile.

### Cause B for error code 0x80180014

Windows MDM enrollment is disabled in your Intune tenant.

### Resolution B for error code 0x80180014

To fix this issue in a stand-alone Intune environment, follow these steps:

1. In the Microsoft Intune admin center, chooses **Devices** > **Enrollment restrictions**, and then choose a device type restriction.
1. Choose **Properties** > **Edit** next to Platform settings. Then select **Allow for Windows (MDM)**.
1. Select **Review** and then **Save**.

## Device import issues

### Cannot convert device hash error

- Clicking Import after selecting CSV does nothing 
- A **400** error appears in network trace with error body **"Cannot convert the literal '[DEVICEHASH]' to the expected type 'Edm.Binary'**

#### Cause of Cannot convert device hash error

This error points to the device hash being incorrectly formatted. Anything that corrupts the collected hash can cause this error. One possibility is that the hash itself (even if it's valid) fails to be decoded.

#### Explanation of Cannot convert device hash error

The device hash is Base64. At the device level, it's encoded as unpadded Base64, but Autopilot expects padded Base64. Usually, the payload doesn't require padding and the process works. Sometimes, however, the payload doesn't line up cleanly and padding is necessary. In this case, the above error is displayed. PowerShell's Base64 decoder also expects padded Base64, so we can use this decoder to validate that the hash is properly padded.

The "A" characters at the end of the hash are effectively empty data. Each character in Base64 is 6 bits, A in Base64 is 6 bits equal to 0. Deleting or adding **A**s at the end doesn't change the actual payload data.

#### Resolution for Cannot convert device hash error

To fix this issue, the hash needs to be modified, then the new value tested, until PowerShell succeeds in decoding the hash. The result is mostly illegible, which is fine. We're just looking for it to not throw the error "Invalid length for a Base-64 char array or string". 

To test the base64, you can use the following PowerShell:

```powershell
[System.Text.Encoding]::ascii.getstring( [System.Convert]::FromBase64String("DEVICE HASH"))
```

So, as an example (this example isn't a device hash, but it's misaligned unpadded Base64 so it's good for testing):

```powershell
[System.Text.Encoding]::ascii.getstring( [System.Convert]::FromBase64String("Q29udG9zbwAAA"))
```

Now for the padding rules. The padding character is "=". The padding character can only be at the end of the hash, and there can only be a maximum of two padding characters. Here's the basic logic.

- Does decoding the hash fail?
  - Yes: Are the last two characters "="?
    - Yes: Replace both "=" with a single "A" character, then try again
    - No: Add another "=" character at the end, then try again
- No: That hash is valid

Looping the above logic on the previous example hash, we get the following permutations:

- Q29udG9zbwAAA
- Q29udG9zbwAAA=
- Q29udG9zbwAAA==
- Q29udG9zbwAAAA
- Q29udG9zbwAAAA=
- **Q29udG9zbwAAAA==** (This one has valid padding)

Replace the collected hash with this new padded hash then try to import again.

## Autopilot profile not applied after reimaging to an older OS version

If you enroll a device with Windows Update [KB5015878](https://support.microsoft.com/topic/july-26-2022-kb5015878-os-builds-19042-1865-19043-1865-and-19044-1865-preview-549f5551-fcc5-4fee-8811-c5df12e04d40) or later on Windows 10 or with Windows Update [KB5017383](https://support.microsoft.com/topic/september-20-2022-kb5017383-os-build-22000-1042-preview-62753265-68e9-45d2-adcb-f996bf3ad393) or later on Windows 11 and then reimage to an older OS version, the Autopilot profile isn't applied. The device would need to be re-registered to complete a successful Autopilot deployment. You may see the message **Fix pending** in the Autopilot devices page, which indicates that there was a hardware change on the device.

### Cause of Autopilot profile not applied after reimaging to an older OS version

The Autopilot profile not applying after a device is reimaged to an older OS version is expected behavior when there's a hardware change on the device. For more information, see [Return of key functionality for Windows Autopilot sign-in and deployment experience](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/intune-customer-success/return-of-key-functionality-for-windows-autopilot-sign-in-and/ba-p/3583130).

### Resolution of Autopilot profile not applied after reimaging to an older OS version

When a device is reimaged to an older OS version after a hardware change on a device, deregister and re-register the device. For more information on how to properly deregister a device, see [Deregister a device](registration-overview.md#deregister-a-device)

## Intune enrollment issues

See [Troubleshooting Windows device enrollment errors in Intune](/mem/intune/device-enrollment/troubleshoot-windows-enrollment-errors) for assistance with Intune enrollment issues. Common issues can include:

- Incorrect or missing licenses assigned to the user.
- Too many devices enrolled for the user.

Error code 80180018 is typically reported on an error page titled **Something went wrong**. This error means that the MDM enrollment failed.

If Autopilot Reset fails immediately with the error **Ran into trouble. Please sign in with an administrator account to see why and reset manually**, see [Troubleshoot Autopilot Reset](/education/windows/autopilot-reset#troubleshoot-autopilot-reset) for more help.

## Related articles

[Windows Autopilot - known issues](known-issues.md)<br>
[Diagnose MDM failures in Windows 10](/windows/client-management/mdm/diagnose-mdm-failures-in-windows-10)<br>
