sccm/core/misc/cm07-eos.md, before:

---
title: End of support
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager 2007
description: Support ends for System Center Configuration Manager 2007 and Forefront Endpoint Protection 2010 on July 9, 2019.
ms.date: 09/19/2018
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-other
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.assetid: 422aa328-7d9c-47d9-ab54-49668085881b
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
robots: noindex,nofollow
---

# Product end of support

*Applies to: System Center Configuration Manager 2007*

Support ends for **System Center Configuration Manager 2007** and **Forefront Endpoint Protection 2010** on July 9, 2019. After this date, Microsoft won't provide the following services for these products: 
- Security updates
- Non-security updates
- Assisted support options (free or paid)
- Online technical content updates 

Microsoft recommends the following migration plan:

- Migrate Configuration Manager 2007 to Configuration Manager (current branch).  

- Migrate Forefront Endpoint Protection 2010 integrated with Configuration Manger 2007 to Configuration Manager (current branch) which includes Endpoint Protection.  

- Migrate Forefront Endpoint Protection 2010 standalone to System Center Endpoint Protection (current branch) standalone.  


For more information, see the following articles:

- [Microsoft Support article](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4096323)  
- [Configuration Manager support blog post](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/configurationmgr/2018/03/30/configuration-manager-2007-approaching-end-of-support-what-you-need-to-know/)  
- [Introduction to Configuration Manager current branch](/sccm/core/understand/introduction)  
- [Documentation on how to migrate to Configuration Manager current branch](/sccm/core/migration/migrate-data-between-hierarchies)  


The Configuration Manager 2007 documentation library is still available on [Microsoft TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/bb735860.aspx).

Commit message:

add video and revise for style

sccm/core/misc/cm07-eos.md, after:

---
title: End of support
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager 2007
description: Support ends for System Center Configuration Manager 2007 and Forefront Endpoint Protection 2010 on July 9, 2019.
ms.date: 11/05/2018
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-other
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.assetid: 422aa328-7d9c-47d9-ab54-49668085881b
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
robots: noindex,nofollow
---

# Product end of support

*Applies to: System Center Configuration Manager 2007*

Support ends for **System Center Configuration Manager 2007** and **Forefront Endpoint Protection 2010** on July 9, 2019. After this date, Microsoft won't provide the following services for these products: 
- Security updates
- Non-security updates
- Assisted support options (free or paid)
- Online technical content updates 

Microsoft recommends the following migration plan:

- Migrate Configuration Manager 2007 to Configuration Manager (current branch).  

- Migrate Forefront Endpoint Protection 2010 integrated with Configuration Manger 2007 to Configuration Manager (current branch) which includes Endpoint Protection.  

- Migrate Forefront Endpoint Protection 2010 standalone to System Center Endpoint Protection (current branch) standalone.  


For more information, see the following articles:

- [Microsoft Support article](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4096323)  
- [Configuration Manager support blog post](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/configurationmgr/2018/03/30/configuration-manager-2007-approaching-end-of-support-what-you-need-to-know/)  
- [Introduction to Configuration Manager current branch](/sccm/core/understand/introduction)  
- [Documentation on how to migrate to Configuration Manager current branch](/sccm/core/migration/migrate-data-between-hierarchies)  
    - This article also includes a video that discusses and demonstrates common migration scenarios.

The Configuration Manager 2007 documentation library is still available on [Microsoft TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/bb735860.aspx).
