sccm/core/misc/in-console-documentation.md, before:

---
title: In-console documentation
ms.date: 01/14/2019
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-other
ms.assetid: 955e56fa-6485-4a1a-90e6-77bc2cf8e326
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
robots: noindex,nofollow
---

<!-- 
- Feature 1357546
- This page displays in-console, under the Community workspace, Documentation node. 
- Don't use any relative links; must be full https://docs.microsoft.com and language neutral
- Process: https://microsoft.sharepoint.com/teams/ConfigMgr/Documents/ContentPub/Data%20collection%20process%20for%20Feature%201357546%20In-console%20documentation.docx?web=1
-->


# Configuration Manager Documentation
The links on this page represent curated content to assist you in learning and supporting Configuration Manager. 

For more information, see the following articles:
- [Configuration Manager documentation library](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm)  
- [How to use the Configuration Manager docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/understand/use-docs)



## Recommended 
A manually curated list of important articles.

- [Co-management for Windows 10 devices](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/comanage/overview)  
- [CMPivot](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/servers/manage/cmpivot)  
- [Create and run PowerShell scripts](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/apps/deploy-use/create-deploy-scripts)  
- [Phased deployments](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/osd/deploy-use/create-phased-deployment-for-task-sequence)  
- [Manage Office 365 ProPlus updates](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/sum/deploy-use/manage-office-365-proplus-updates)  
- [Fundamentals of Configuration Manager current branch and Windows as a service](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/understand/configuration-manager-and-windows-as-service)
- [Optimize Windows 10 update delivery with Configuration Manager](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/sum/deploy-use/optimize-windows-10-update-delivery)
- [Technical preview releases](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/get-started/technical-preview)
- [Use cloud services to supplement on-premises infrastructure](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/understand/use-cloud-services)
- [Plan for the cloud management gateway](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/clients/manage/plan-cloud-management-gateway)
- [Migrate data between hierarchies](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/migration/migrate-data-between-hierarchies)



## Trending
The most popular articles in December 2018.

 | Page views | Title | 
 |------------|-------| 
 | 16430 | [Log files for troubleshooting](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/plan-design/hierarchy/log-files) |
 | 15155 | [What's new in version 1810](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/plan-design/changes/whats-new-in-version-1810) |
 | 8581 | [Deploy clients to Windows](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/clients/deploy/deploy-clients-to-windows-computers) |
 | 7866 | [Ports used for connections](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/plan-design/hierarchy/ports) |
 | 7434 | [Support for Windows 10](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/plan-design/configs/support-for-windows-10) |
 | 7088 | [What's new in version 1806](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/plan-design/changes/whats-new-in-version-1806) |
 | 7086 | [Client installation parameters and properties](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/clients/deploy/about-client-installation-properties) |
 | 6914 | [Install console](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/servers/deploy/install/install-consoles) |
 | 6087 | [Deploy applications](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/apps/deploy-use/deploy-applications) |
 | 5817 | [Updates and servicing](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/servers/manage/updates) |



## Recently updated
Articles with a recent and significant update.

 | Last reviewed | Title | 
 |---------------|-------|
 | 12/26/2018 | [Prepare Intune for user migration](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/mdm/deploy-use/migrate-prepare-intune) |
 | 12/21/2018 | [Deprecated features](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/plan-design/changes/deprecated/removed-and-deprecated-cmfeatures) |
 | 12/21/2018 | [Release notes](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/servers/deploy/install/release-notes) |
 | 12/21/2018 | [Windows Hello for Business settings](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/mdm/deploy-use/windows-hello-for-business-settings) |
 | 12/20/2018 | [Manage software updates synchronization](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/sum/get-started/synchronize-software-updates) |
 | 12/14/2018 | [Prerequisite checks](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/servers/deploy/install/list-of-prerequisite-checks) |
 | 12/14/2018 | [Technical preview releases](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/get-started/technical-preview) |
 | 12/14/2018 | [Technical preview 1812](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/get-started/capabilities-in-technical-preview-1812) |
 | 12/14/2018 | [Approve applications](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/apps/deploy-use/app-approval) |
 | 12/14/2018 | [What's new in hybrid MDM](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/mdm/understand/whats-new-in-hybrid-mobile-device-management) |



## Troubleshooting articles
Guided walkthroughs to assist with troubleshooting Configuration Manager components and features.

- [Troubleshooting PXE boot issues](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4468612)
- [Troubleshooting software update synchronization issues](https://support.microsoft.com/help/10059)
- [Understanding and troubleshooting content distribution](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4000401)
- [Understanding and troubleshooting the Microsoft Store for Business integration](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4010214)
- [Software update management troubleshooting](https://support.microsoft.com/help/10680)
- [Troubleshooting the Install Application task sequence step](https://support.microsoft.com/help/18408/)



## New and updated support articles
Support articles that are new or updated in November 2018.

- [KB 4468362: How to deploy a Windows language pack as an application in Configuration Manager](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4468362)
- [KB 4469580: ConfigMgr PXE does not work because a self-signed certificate is not created](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4469580/)
- [KB 4471003: How to boot from a PXE server that's on a different network](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4471003)
- [KB 4462978: Update rollup for System Center Configuration Manager current branch, version 1806](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4462978)
- [KB 4471061: A client computer can "steal" the Configuration Manager GUID of an Unknown Computer object during imaging](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4471061)
- [KB 4471115: Dynamic Media in Configuration Manager cannot get management point locations when the Task Sequence Wizard runs in Windows PE](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4471115)


To subscribe to Atom or RSS notification of new Configuration Manager support articles, see [Support content updates](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4089498/) and select **System Center Configuration Manager**.

Commit message:

Dec 2018 update for in-console-documentation.md
Revised new and updated support articles section with December 2018 data.

sccm/core/misc/in-console-documentation.md, after:

---
title: In-console documentation
ms.date: 01/14/2019
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-other
ms.assetid: 955e56fa-6485-4a1a-90e6-77bc2cf8e326
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
robots: noindex,nofollow
---

<!-- 
- Feature 1357546
- This page displays in-console, under the Community workspace, Documentation node. 
- Don't use any relative links; must be full https://docs.microsoft.com and language neutral
- Process: https://microsoft.sharepoint.com/teams/ConfigMgr/Documents/ContentPub/Data%20collection%20process%20for%20Feature%201357546%20In-console%20documentation.docx?web=1
-->


# Configuration Manager Documentation
The links on this page represent curated content to assist you in learning and supporting Configuration Manager. 

For more information, see the following articles:
- [Configuration Manager documentation library](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm)  
- [How to use the Configuration Manager docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/understand/use-docs)



## Recommended 
A manually curated list of important articles.

- [Co-management for Windows 10 devices](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/comanage/overview)  
- [CMPivot](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/servers/manage/cmpivot)  
- [Create and run PowerShell scripts](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/apps/deploy-use/create-deploy-scripts)  
- [Phased deployments](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/osd/deploy-use/create-phased-deployment-for-task-sequence)  
- [Manage Office 365 ProPlus updates](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/sum/deploy-use/manage-office-365-proplus-updates)  
- [Fundamentals of Configuration Manager current branch and Windows as a service](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/understand/configuration-manager-and-windows-as-service)
- [Optimize Windows 10 update delivery with Configuration Manager](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/sum/deploy-use/optimize-windows-10-update-delivery)
- [Technical preview releases](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/get-started/technical-preview)
- [Use cloud services to supplement on-premises infrastructure](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/understand/use-cloud-services)
- [Plan for the cloud management gateway](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/clients/manage/plan-cloud-management-gateway)
- [Migrate data between hierarchies](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/migration/migrate-data-between-hierarchies)



## Trending
The most popular articles in December 2018.

 | Page views | Title | 
 |------------|-------| 
 | 16430 | [Log files for troubleshooting](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/plan-design/hierarchy/log-files) |
 | 15155 | [What's new in version 1810](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/plan-design/changes/whats-new-in-version-1810) |
 | 8581 | [Deploy clients to Windows](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/clients/deploy/deploy-clients-to-windows-computers) |
 | 7866 | [Ports used for connections](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/plan-design/hierarchy/ports) |
 | 7434 | [Support for Windows 10](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/plan-design/configs/support-for-windows-10) |
 | 7088 | [What's new in version 1806](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/plan-design/changes/whats-new-in-version-1806) |
 | 7086 | [Client installation parameters and properties](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/clients/deploy/about-client-installation-properties) |
 | 6914 | [Install console](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/servers/deploy/install/install-consoles) |
 | 6087 | [Deploy applications](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/apps/deploy-use/deploy-applications) |
 | 5817 | [Updates and servicing](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/servers/manage/updates) |



## Recently updated
Articles with a recent and significant update.

 | Last reviewed | Title | 
 |---------------|-------|
 | 12/26/2018 | [Prepare Intune for user migration](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/mdm/deploy-use/migrate-prepare-intune) |
 | 12/21/2018 | [Deprecated features](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/plan-design/changes/deprecated/removed-and-deprecated-cmfeatures) |
 | 12/21/2018 | [Release notes](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/servers/deploy/install/release-notes) |
 | 12/21/2018 | [Windows Hello for Business settings](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/mdm/deploy-use/windows-hello-for-business-settings) |
 | 12/20/2018 | [Manage software updates synchronization](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/sum/get-started/synchronize-software-updates) |
 | 12/14/2018 | [Prerequisite checks](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/servers/deploy/install/list-of-prerequisite-checks) |
 | 12/14/2018 | [Technical preview releases](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/get-started/technical-preview) |
 | 12/14/2018 | [Technical preview 1812](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/core/get-started/capabilities-in-technical-preview-1812) |
 | 12/14/2018 | [Approve applications](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/apps/deploy-use/app-approval) |
 | 12/14/2018 | [What's new in hybrid MDM](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm/mdm/understand/whats-new-in-hybrid-mobile-device-management) |



## Troubleshooting articles
Guided walkthroughs to assist with troubleshooting Configuration Manager components and features.

- [Troubleshooting PXE boot issues](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4468612)
- [Troubleshooting software update synchronization issues](https://support.microsoft.com/help/10059)
- [Understanding and troubleshooting content distribution](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4000401)
- [Understanding and troubleshooting the Microsoft Store for Business integration](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4010214)
- [Software update management troubleshooting](https://support.microsoft.com/help/10680)
- [Troubleshooting the Install Application task sequence step](https://support.microsoft.com/help/18408/)



## New and updated support articles
Support articles that are new or updated in December 2018.

- [KB 4040243: How to enable TLS 1.2 for Configuration Manager](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4040243)
- [KB 4477073: Error 0x800f0831 when you install an update](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4477073)
- [KB 4471003: How to boot from a PXE server that's on a different network](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4471003)
- [KB 4474026: Enable BitLocker task fails with error 80070057 in Configuration Manager](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4474026)
- [KB 4483868: Contributor role is no longer assigned for a web app at the subscription level in Azure](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4483868)


To subscribe to Atom or RSS notification of new Configuration Manager support articles, see [Support content updates](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4089498/) and select **System Center Configuration Manager**.
