---
title: Update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2111
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2111
ms.date: 12/28/2021
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 8926c6bf-9d84-47fc-aede-ca1ebc797a35
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: dougeby
---
# Update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2111

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2111)*

## Summary of KB12709700
An update is available to address important, late-breaking issues that were resolved after version 2111 became available globally. It applies both to the globally available and early update ring releases.

You can access the update in the Updates and Servicing node of the Configuration Manager console.
This update does not apply to sites that downloaded version 2111 on December 20, 2021, or a later date.
Therefore, it will not be listed in the Configuration Manager console for those sites.

## Issues that are fixed

<!-- 12668507 -->
- The Configuration Manager client fails to install during the Windows Autopilot deployment process.

<!-- 12692152 -->
- When setting up virtual private network (VPN) boundaries based upon network adapters, the boundaries won't work because the adapters are not resolving.

<!-- 12683956 -->
- Adding or deleting orchestration post-installation script can cause the deletion of post-installation scripts from other orchestration groups.

<!-- 12868458 -->
- The following issue described in the 2111 release notes is resolved.

   [Unable to open console because extension installation loops](../../core/servers/deploy/install/release-notes.md#unable-to-open-console-because-extension-installation-loops)

## Update information for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager, version 2111
An update to resolve these issues is available in the **Updates and Servicing** node of the Configuration Manager console for environments that downloaded version 2111 before December 20, 2021. 
The update applies to installations of version 2111 from packages with the following GUIDs:
   - 653BACCA-5BCE-4B4C-9A83-10932A561F71 
   - B07144F6-3B8E-4587-B1F0-BB47DA54C566
   - C77888E5-7499-4885-9EED-811BB2D958C0

Members of the Technology Adoption Program (TAP) must first install the private TAP Rollup before this update is available.

#### Update replacement information
This update does not replace any previously released updates.

#### Restart information
This update does not require a computer restart but will initiate a [site reset](../../core/servers/manage/modify-your-infrastructure.md#bkmk_reset) after installation.

### Additional installation information
After you install this update on a primary site, pre-existing secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. Configurations and settings for the secondary site are not affected by this reinstallation. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:
   ```code
   select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
   ```
If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.

If the value 0 is returned, the site has not installed all the fixes that are applied to the primary site, and you should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.

## Version information
The following major components are updated to the versions specified:

|Component |Version |
|---|---|
| Full Version | 5.00.9068.1008 |
| Configuration Manager console | 5.2111.1052.1700 |
| Client | 5.00.9068.1008 |

## File information
File information is available in the downloadable [KB12709700_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB12709700_FileList) text file.

## Release history
- December 28, 2021: Initial hotfix release

## References
[Updates and servicing for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/updates.md)