---
title: Connected cache update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2111
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Console update for 2111
ms.date: 1/21/2022
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 41afa274-7561-4c0e-80af-2d0fe01699ef
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: apoorvseth
ms.reviewer: mstewart,aaroncz 
ms.collection: tier3
---

# Connected cache update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2111

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2111)*
## Summary of KB12819689

An update is available to resolve the following issue with Configuration Manager current branch, version 2111.

- The Microsoft Connected Cache (MCC) feature is not used as expected for Win32 apps deployed through Microsoft Intune in a co-managed environment.
Review of the IntuneManagementExtension.log file shows an internet-based **DownloadURL** value. 
The MCC component is enabled by selecting the **Enable this distribution point to be used as Microsoft Connected Cache server** option in a distribution point's properties.
 

## Update information for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager, version 2111
The following hotfix to resolve this problem is available for download from the Microsoft Download Center:

[Download this hotfix now](https://download.microsoft.com/download/a/3/a/a3af1ea3-79ba-4600-8953-c2a4b6b8b970/DoincInstall.exe).

After you download this hotfix, refer to the following installation instructions.

## Installation instructions
1. Confirm there is not currently an installation of the MCC component in progress. This is done by checking for status message **9522**, generated by the `SMS_DISTRIBUTION_MANAGER` component. The 9522 message indicates that installation is no longer being retried.
2. Copy the new version of `DoincInstall.exe`, version **1.5.5.9002**, to the `{SMSInstallDir}\bin\x64` folder on all site servers, including the Central Administration Site (CAS) if present, and any passive sites.
3. Uncheck the **Enable this distribution point to be used as Microsoft Connected Cache server** option in the affected distribution point’s properties.
4. Wait for the uninstall of MCC to complete on the distribution point. This can be confirmed by looking for a **9152** success status message, combined with the following entry in `distmgr.log`.
   ```text
   Finished waiting for DoincInstall. InvocationState: UninstallCompleted. InvocationExitCode: 0. InvocationMessage: .
   ```
5. Recheck the **Enable this distribution point to be used as Microsoft Connected Cache server** option for the affected distribution point.

   > [!TIP]
   > For sites with a large number of distribution points, replace steps 3 - 5 above with the following.
   > - Create an empty file named `resetdps.trn` and place it in the `{SMSInstallDir}\inboxes\distmgr.box` folder. This will reinstall all distribution points for that site using the latest version of `DoincInstall.exe` copied in step 2. above. 

## Prerequisites
To apply this hotfix, you must be using Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager, versions 1910 through versions 2111.

## Restart information
You don't have to restart the computer after you apply this hotfix. 

## Hotfix replacement information
This hotfix replaces the following previously released hotfix.

[KB5001600 Microsoft Connected Cache component fails to install on Configuration Manager current branch](../../hotfix/2010/5001600.md)

## File information
File information is available in the downloadable [KB12819689_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB12819689_FileList) text file.

## Release history
- January 21, 2022: Initial hotfix release
