---
title: Client update for Configuration Manager current branch, version 2111
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Client update for Configuration Manager 2111
ms.date: 01/14/2022
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 9ccb89bc-fbd4-4e8a-8631-6829fcf006ed
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: dougeby
---
# Client update for Configuration Manager current branch, version 2111

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2111)*

## Summary of KB12959506

A client update is available to address the following two issues.

- The remote control viewer hangs at "Connecting to host session" when starting a remote control session.
- The Configuration Manager client (ccmexec.exe) may terminate on startup if it receives policy to change the *peer cache source* client setting from disabled to enabled, while also having cached content.

## Update information for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager, version 2111

An update to resolve this issue is available in the **Updates and Servicing** node of the Configuration Manager console for version 2111 environments.

Customers using early update ring versions must also have the following update installed.
- KB [12709700](../../hotfix/2111/12709700.md): Update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2111

Members of the Technology Adoption Program (TAP) must have the private TAP rollup installed.
#### Update replacement information

This update does not replace any previously released updates.
#### Restart information

This update does not require a computer restart or initiate a [site reset](../../core/servers/manage/modify-your-infrastructure.md#bkmk_reset) after installation.

### Additional installation information

After you install this update on a primary site, pre-existing secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. Configurations and settings for the secondary site are not affected by this reinstallation. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:
   ```code
   select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
   ```
If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.

If the value 0 is returned, the site has not installed all the fixes that are applied to the primary site, and you should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.

## Version information
<!-- TEMPLATE: Qiani will provide the component version information and the file table AKA link. -->
The following major components are updated to the versions specified:

|Component |Version |
|---|---|
| Client | 5.00.9068.1012 |

## File information
File information is available in the downloadable [KB12959506_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB12959506_FileList) text file.

## Release history

- January 14, 2022: Initial hotfix release

## References

- [Updates and servicing for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/updates.md)
- [Peer cache for Configuration Manager clients](../../core/plan-design/hierarchy/client-peer-cache.md)
- [How to remotely administer a Windows client computer by using Configuration Manager](../../core/clients/manage/remote-control/remotely-administer-a-windows-client-computer.md)