---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 01/17/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_powerbi"></a> Integrate with Power BI Report Server

<!--3721603-->

You can now integrate [Power BI Report Server](/power-bi/report-server/get-started) with Configuration Manager reporting. This integration gives you modern visualization and better performance. It adds console support for Power BI reports similar to what already exists with SQL Server Reporting Services.

Save Power BI Desktop report files (.PBIX) and deploy them to the Power BI Report Server. This process is similar as with SQL Server Reporting Services report files (.RDL). You can also launch the reports in the browser directly from the Configuration Manager console.

### Prerequisites and initial setup

- Power BI Report Server license. For more information, see [Licensing Power BI Report Server](/power-bi/report-server/get-started#licensing-power-bi-report-server).

- Download [Microsoft Power BI Report Server-September 2024](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=105945).

- Download [Microsoft Power BI Desktop (Optimized for Power BI Report Server - September 2019)](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=58494).

    > [!IMPORTANT]
    > Only use this version of Power BI Desktop, don't use the version from the Microsoft Store.

- [Configure the reporting services point](#bkmk_powerbi-rsp)

- [Configure the Configuration Manager console](#bkmk_powerbi-console)

#### <a name="bkmk_powerbi-rsp"></a> Configure the reporting services point

This process varies depending upon whether you already have this role in the site.

##### If you don't have a reporting services point

Do all steps of this process on the same server:

1. Install Power BI Report Server.

2. Add the reporting services point role in Configuration Manager. For more information, see [Configure reporting](../../../../servers/manage/configuring-reporting.md).

##### If you already have a reporting services point

Do all steps of this process on the same server:

1. In **Reporting Services Configuration Manager**, back up the **Encryption Keys**. For more information, see [SSRS Encryption Keys - Back Up and Restore Encryption Keys](/sql/reporting-services/install-windows/ssrs-encryption-keys-back-up-and-restore-encryption-keys).

1. Remove the reporting services point role from the site.

1. Uninstall SQL Server Reporting Services, but keep the database.

1. Install Power BI Report Server.

1. Configure the Power BI Report Server

    1. Use the previous report server database.

    1. Use **Reporting Services Configuration Manager** to restore the **Encryption Keys**.

1. Add the reporting services point role in Configuration Manager.

#### <a name="bkmk_powerbi-console"></a> Configure the Configuration Manager console

1. On a computer that has the Configuration Manager console, update the Configuration Manager console to the latest version.

1. Install Power BI Desktop. Make sure the language is the same.

1. After it installs, launch Power BI Desktop at least once before you open the Configuration Manager console.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Monitoring** workspace, expand **Reporting**, and select the new **Power BI Reports** node.

1. In the ribbon, select **Create Report**. This action opens Power BI Desktop.

1. Create a report in Power BI Desktop.

1. When the report is ready to save, go to the **File** menu, select **Save as**, then choose **Power BI Report Server**.

1. In the **Power BI Report Server Selection** window, enter the URL for the reporting services point as the **New report server address**. For example, `https://rsp.contoso.com/Reports`.

In the Configuration Manager console, you see the new report in the list of Power BI Reports.

After you create a report, use the following actions in the Configuration Manager console:

- **Run in Browser**: Opens the Power BI report in the web browser. Share this URL with others, for example: `https://rsp.contoso.com/Reports/POWERBI/ConfigMgr_ABC/Windows%2010/Windows10%20Dashboard?rs:embed=true`

- **Edit**: Make changes to the report in Power BI Desktop. For an existing report, use the **Save** option to save changes back to the report server.

For more information on log files to use for reporting, see [Log file reference - Reporting](../../../../plan-design/hierarchy/log-files.md#BKMK_ReportLog).