---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 08/26/2021
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_powershell"></a> PowerShell release notes preview

<!--10326535-->

These release notes summarize changes to the Configuration Manager PowerShell cmdlets in this technical preview release.

For more information about PowerShell for Configuration Manager, see [Get started with Configuration Manager cmdlets](/powershell/sccm/overview).

### New cmdlets

#### Get-CMDeploymentTypeRequirement

Use this cmdlet to get the requirement rules for the specified deployment type. You can use the returned object to add the same rules to another deployment type.

For example, the following sample first gets a deployment type object from **AppA**. It passes that object to the **Get-CMDeploymentTypeRequirement** cmdlet to get its requirement rules. It then uses the **Set-CMScriptDeploymentType** cmdlet to add the same requirement rule to another deployment type on a different application.

```powershell
$dt1 = Get-CMDeploymentType -ApplicationName "AppA" -DeploymentTypeName "dt1"

$rule = $dt1 | Get-CMDeploymentTypeRequirement

Set-CMScriptDeploymentType -ApplicationName "AppB" -DeploymentTypeName "dt2" -AddRequirement $rule
```

#### Get-CMSecurityRolePermission

Use this cmdlet to get the permissions for the specified security role.

This example first gets an object for the built-in security role **Application author** in the variable **$role**. It then passes that object to the **Get-CMSecurityRolePermission** cmdlet, and saves the list of permissions in the **$rolePermission** variable.

```powershell
$roleName = "Application author"
$role = Get-CMSecurityRole -Name $roleName
$rolePermission = $role | Get-CMSecurityRolePermission
```

For more information on security roles and permissions, see [Fundamentals of role-based administration](../../../../understand/fundamentals-of-role-based-administration.md).

#### Set-CMSecurityRolePermission

Use this cmdlet to configure a security role with specific permissions.

This example first gets an object for the security role **Contoso custom role** in the variable **$role**. It then creates a hashtable of allowed operations, or permissions, in the **$ops** variable. These permissions include the following operations:

- Create and delete boundaries
- Read applications
- Modify alert subscriptions, including set security scope

The example then uses the **Set-CMSecurityRolePermission** cmdlet to set the specified permissions on the specified security role.

```powershell
$roleName = "Contoso custom role"
$role = Get-CMSecurityRole -Name $roleName

$ops = @{Boundaries="Create,Delete";Application="Read";"Alert Subscription"="Modify,Set Security Scope"}

$role | Set-CMSecurityRolePermission -RolePermission $ops
```

### Modified cmdlets

#### Get-CMPersistentUserSettingsGroup

For more information, see [Get-CMPersistentUserSettingsGroup](/powershell/module/configurationmanager/Get-CMPersistentUserSettingsGroup).

**Bugs that were fixed**

Fixed an issue with the **Name** parameter to filter on setting groups.

#### Get-CMUserDeviceAffinity

For more information, see [Get-CMUserDeviceAffinity](/powershell/module/configurationmanager/Get-CMUserDeviceAffinity).

**Non-breaking changes**

Add parameter **ShowApprovedOnly** to filter out non-approved affinities.

#### New-CMRequirementRule*

This change applies to all cmdlets that start with **New-CMRequirementRule**. For example, [New-CMRequirementRuleExistential](/powershell/module/configurationmanager/New-CMRequirementRuleExistential).

**Bugs that were fixed**

Fixed a requirement rule name issue with these cmdlets.

#### Set-CMDeviceVariable

For more information, see [Set-CMDeviceVariable](/powershell/module/configurationmanager/Set-CMDeviceVariable).

**Non-breaking changes**

The parameter **VariableName** is now case-insensitive.

#### Set-CM*DeploymentType

This change applies to all cmdlets to configure application deployment types. For example, [Set-CMMsiDeploymentType](/powershell/module/configurationmanager/Set-CMMsiDeploymentType).

**Bugs that were fixed**

Fixed a requirement rule name issue with these cmdlets.

#### Set-CMSoftwareUpdatePointComponent

For more information, see [Set-CMSoftwareUpdatePointComponent](/powershell/module/configurationmanager/Set-CMSoftwareUpdatePointComponent).

**Breaking changes**

Removed the deprecated parameter **EnableSynchronization** from this cmdlet. To set the synchronization schedule, use the **Schedule** parameter.

For example, to disable the synchronization schedule:

```powershell
Set-CMSoftwareUpdatePointComponent -Name "Contoso-SiteSysSrv.Western.Contoso.com" -Schedule $null
```
