---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 08/26/2021
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_custom"></a> Custom properties for devices in the console

<!--10642650-->

In Configuration Manager current branch version 2107, you can use the [administration service to set custom properties on devices](../../../../../develop/adminservice/custom-properties.md). These custom properties let you add external data to a device to help with deployment targeting, collection building, and reporting.

Starting in this technical preview release, you can create and edit these custom properties in the Configuration Manager console. This new user interface makes it easier to view and edit these properties. You can still use the administration service interface to automate the process from an external system.

:::image type="content" source="../../media/10642650-custom-device-properties.png" alt-text="Custom Properties tab on a device with multiple values.":::

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace, and select the **Devices** node.

1. Select a device, and then in the ribbon select **Properties**

1. Switch to the **Custom Properties** tab.

1. Select the gold star icon :::image type="icon" source="../../media/new-icon.png" border="false"::: to create a new custom property. Provide a name for the property and set a value for this device. Select **OK** to save the properties.

You can now create a collection that queries for this property from the **Device Custom Properties** class.
