---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 08/26/2021
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_notify"></a> Improvements to Software Center notifications with logos

<!--4993167-->

In [technical preview version 2011](../../../2020/technical-preview-2011.md#bkmk_notify), your Software Center logo would also appear in Windows 10 notifications.

Starting in this release, when you customize Software Center settings, the logo that you specify for Windows 10 notifications is separate from the Software Center logo. The logo for notifications has the following requirements:

- A JPG, PNG, or BMP file
- Square aspect ratio, with minimum dimensions of 90 x 90 pixels and maximum dimensions of 125 x 125 pixels
- A maximum size of 750 KB
- No spaces in the file name

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. Configure the **Software Center** group of client settings. For more information, see [How to configure client settings](../../../../clients/deploy/configure-client-settings.md).

1. For Software Center settings, select **Customize**.

1. Select the option to **Select a logo for notifications** and then browse to the image file.

1. Select **OK** to save the client settings. If you're using a custom client settings object, make sure it's deployed to a collection of devices.

Then create a deployment to a device that also has this client setting applied. When the client triggers a notification, you'll see your logo.

### Known issue with Software Center notifications on Windows 11 Insider Preview builds

<!-- 10610910,11059565 -->

Current builds of Windows 11 Insider Preview have **Focus assist** turned on by default for _priority only_ notifications. Software Center isn't registered as a priority notification provider, so its notifications won't appear on devices running current versions of Windows 11 Insider Preview. To work around this issue, turn off focus assist. For more information, see [Turn Focus assist on or off in Windows](https://support.microsoft.com/windows/turn-focus-assist-on-or-off-in-windows-5492a638-b5a3-1ee0-0c4f-5ae044450e09).
