---
author: paasin
ms.author: paasin
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 06/10/2022
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_dbgmp"></a> Default site boundary group behavior to support cloud source selection
<!--10674394-->
You can now add options via PowerShell to include and prefer cloud management gateway (CMG) management points for the default site boundary group. When a site is set up, there's a default site boundary group created for each site and all the clients are by default mapped to it until they're assigned to some custom boundary group. 

Currently on the admin console, you can add references to default site boundary group, but the added references don't have any effect when the client requests for management point list. Starting with technical preview version 2206, you can use PowerShell cmdlets to include and prefer cloud-based sources for clients in the default site boundary group. This action is currently only for the management point role.  

> [!NOTE]
> You can't currently configure this behavior from the Configuration Manager console. For more information on configuring this behavior with PowerShell, see the cmdlet details in the following section. 

### Set-CMDefaultBoundaryGroup 

Use this cmdlet to modify the properties of a default site boundary group. You can set the options to include and prefer the cloud-based sources for the clients in default site boundary group. 

#### Syntax

```powershell
Set-CMDefaultBoundaryGroup [-IncludeCloudBasedSources <Boolean>] [-PreferCloudBasedSources <Boolean>] 
```

#### Examples

```powershell
Set-CMDefaultBoundaryGroup -IncludeCloudBasedSources $true -PreferCloudBasedSources $true 

Set-CMDefaultBoundaryGroup -IncludeCloudBasedSources $true 

Set-CMDefaultBoundaryGroup -IncludeCloudBasedSources $true -PreferCloudBasedSources $false 
```

#### Parameters

- **IncludeCloudBasedSources**: Used to specify whether admin wants to include the cloud-based sources in the management point list for the clients in default site boundary group. 

- **PreferCloudBasedSources**: Used to specify whether admin wants to prefer the cloud-based sources in the management point list for the clients in default site boundary group. On selecting this option, cloud-based sources will be given preference by the clients. 

> [!NOTE]
> You can only set this option to true if the parameter IncludeCloudBasedSources is set to true or was already set to true by the admin. 
