---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 12/14/2018


---

## <a name="bkmk_console"></a> Improvements to Configuration Manager console
<!--3594151-->
Based on customer feedback at the Midwest Management Summit (MMS) Desert Edition 2018, this release includes the following improvements to the Configuration Manager console:

#### Maximize the browse registry window
In the **Software Library** workspace, expand **Application Management**, and select the **Applications** node. Select an application that has a deployment type with a detection method. For example, a Windows Installer detection method. In the details pane, switch to the **Deployment Types** tab. Open the properties of a deployment type, and switch to the **Detection Method** tab. Select **Add Clause**. Change the **Setting Type** to **Registry** and select **Browse** to open the **Browse Registry** window. Now you can now maximize this window.  

#### Go to the collection from an application deployment
In the **Software Library** workspace, expand **Application Management**, and select the **Applications** node. Select an application. In the details pane, switch to the **Deployments** tab. Select a deployment, and then choose the new **Collection** option in the ribbon on the Deployment tab. (This action is also available from the right-click context menu on the deployment in this view.) This action switches the view to the collection that's the target of the deployment.

#### Edit a task sequence by default
In the **Software Library** workspace, expand **Operating Systems**, and select the **Task Sequences** node. **Edit** is now the default action when opening a task sequence. Previously the default action was **Properties**.  

#### Remove content from monitoring status
In the **Monitoring** workspace, expand **Distribution Status**, and select **Content Status**. Select an item in the list, and choose the **View Status** option in the ribbon. In the Asset Details pane, right-click a distribution point, and select the new option **Remove**. This action removes this content from the selected distribution point.

#### Views sort by integer values
Based on your feedback, we made improvements to how various views sort data. If there are any others you find, send [Feedback](../../../understand/product-feedback.md).  

For example, in the **Deployments** node of the **Monitoring** workspace, the following columns now sort as numbers instead of string values:  

- Number Errors
- Number In Progress
- Number Other
- Number Success
- Number Unknown

#### Move the warning for a large number of results
When you select a node in the console that returns more than 1,000 results, Configuration Manager displays the following warning:

> Configuration Manager returned a large number of results. You can narrow your results by using search. Or, click here to view a maximum of 100000 results.  

There's now additional blank space in between this warning and the search field. This move helps to prevent inadvertently selecting the warning to display more results. 


