---
author: Palikasingh
ms.author: palsi
manager: apoorvseth
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 07/28/2023
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_Win11dashboard"></a> Windows 11 Upgrade Readiness Dashboard

<!--17668425-->
Administrators can use this dashboard to devise their Windows 11 upgrade strategy and discover the devices in the organization, which are ready for Windows 11 Upgrade. This Dashboard also provides a count by installed Feature update version and a view of all Windows devices inside the organization. Administrators can create a collection of Windows 11 ready for upgrading devices and roll out feature updates to them. 

:::image type="content" source="../../media/17668425-windows11-dashboard.png" alt-text="Screenshot of UX of windows 11 readiness dashboard."lightbox="../../media/17668425-windows11-dashboard.png":::

Following four charts are offered in this dashboard:
  - Windows Device Information- Shows count of Windows 7, 8 , 10 and 11 devices in your organization.    
  - Feature Update Version – Shows count of each feature update Version in your organization. 
  - Upgrade Experience Indicators – Shows information for each device, which can be in any of these states: 
     - Cannot Upgrade (Red Color) devices that cannot be upgraded to windows 11.
     - App Upgrade/Uninstall required (Yellow Color) devices that need an application update or uninstall before upgrading to Windows 11. 
     - App/Driver upgrade required (Orange Color) devices that need application upgrade to windows 11. 
     - Ready for Upgrade (Green Color) devices that are capable of Windows 11 upgrade. 
 -  Windows 11 Minimum Hardware Requirement – Showcases the minimum hardware and software requirements needed to support Windows 11.     

