---
title: Summary of changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2211
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Article listing changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2211
ms.date: 12/20/2022
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: e42853c3-df96-44fd-82c1-2377553ed682
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: apoorvseth
ms.reviewer: mstewart,aaroncz 
ms.collection: tier3
---

# Summary of changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2211

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2211)*

## Summary of KB15582417
Release version 2211 of Configuration Manager current branch contains fixes and feature improvements.
The "Issues that are fixed" list isn't inclusive of all changes. Instead, it highlights changes the product development team believes are most relevant to the broad Configuration Manager customer base. Many of these changes were made in response to customer feedback about product issues and improvements.

##### Notes
- Version 2211 is available as an in-console update that can be installed at the top-tier site in a hierarchy.
- For installation information, see [Checklist for installing update 2211 for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/checklist-for-installing-update-2211.md).
- For more information about the changes that are included in version 2211, see [What's new in version 2211 of Configuration Manager current branch](../../core/plan-design/changes/whats-new-in-version-2211.md).
- This globally available release contains all of the fixes summarized in the following article.

   KB [15152495](../../hotfix/2207/15152495.md): Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2207

## Issues that are fixed
<!-- 13879970 -->
- The OSDInjection.xml file is now preserved during an update to a new Configuration Manager version. If an administrator has modified the file those changes will be kept after the update process.

<!-- 14129129 -->>
- The default file size for Configuration Manager client logs is increased to 2.5 MB when a pull distribution point (pull DP) is installed. This will help troubleshooting potential issues with the pull DP.

<!-- 14189926 -->
- Content transfer to a pull DP may be stuck in an "In-progress" state after 50 different packages are transferred in a short period of time. For example, the issue can happen after installing a new pull DP.

<!-- 14476554 -->
- The *Create Script* wizard now supports the **List** parameter type. For example, the following input is now supported.
   ```text
   [array]arrays=@('3', 'b', 'c','d')
   or
   [string[]]arrays=@(​′​3​′​​,​′​​b​′​​,​′​​c​′​​,​′​​d​′​​)
   ```

<!-- 14839263 -->
- The *Verbose Logs* registry key is now properly configured for the SMS_AD_FOREST_DISCOVERY_MANAGER component.

<!-- 14852858 -->
- Co-managed devices aren't merged as expected in the admin center.

<!-- 14897684 -->
- The client signing certificate is recreated and a discovery data record (DDR) is sent when a client runs a non-operating system deployment task sequence. In large environments, this can lead to a backlog of .RDR files.

<!-- 15082072 -->
- A horizontal side scroll is now displayed when the data in a fixed-width window exceeds the available display space. For example, you can now scroll to show an entire OU name in *Criterion Properties*, in the *Membership Rules* section of the *Create Device Collection Wizard*.

<!-- 15783171 --> 
- Collection evaluation fails if the query contains the string "Client0", such as "PRI**Client0**7.01.0" for example. When the evaluation fails, an error similar to the following is recorded in the colleval.log file.
   ```text
   The select list for the INSERT statement contains fewer items than the insert list. The number of SELECT values must match the number of INSERT columns.
   Error evaluating collection rules [PRI0001A, Error 0x15] 
   ```

<!-- 16260986 -->
- Windows product lifecycle data is updated in the Configuration Manager console. 

## Hotfixes that are included in this update
- KB [14978429](../../hotfix/2207/14978429.md): Connected cache update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager versions 2103-2207
- KB [15152495](../../hotfix/2207/15152495.md): Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2207

## Dependency changes ##
- Microsoft Defender for Endpoint service - md4ws.msi - is updated to the latest version