---
author: mestew
ms.author: mstewart
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 12/14/2020
---
## <a name="bkmk_cmpivot_hub"></a> Access the top queries shared in the Community hub from CMPivot
<!--7137169-->

You can now access the top CMPivot queries shared in the Community hub from on-premises CMPivot. By leveraging pre-created CMPivot queries shared by the broader community, CMPivot users gain access to a wider variety of queries. On-premises CMPivot accesses the Community hub and returns a list of the top downloaded CMPivot queries. Users can review the top queries, customize them, and then run on-demand. This improvement gives a wider selection of queries for immediate usage without having to construct them and also allows information sharing on how to build queries for future reference.

### Prerequisites

- Enable [Community hub](../../../../servers/manage/community-hub.md)
   - You don't need a GitHub account to download content.
- Verify which [content categories are displayed](../../../../servers/manage/community-hub.md#bkmk_category) for Community hub
- Meet all of the [CMPivot prerequisites and permissions](../../../../servers/manage/cmpivot.md#prerequisites)
- Install the [Microsoft Edge WebView2 runtime](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/#download-section) via the **Evergreen Standalone Installer**
### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. Go to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace then select the **Device Collections** node.
1. Select a target collection, target device, or group of devices then select **Start CMPivot** in the ribbon to launch the tool.
   - Optionally, launch the [CMPivot standalone](../../../../servers/manage/cmpivot.md#bkmk_standalone) (.msi) installation.
1. Use the Community hub icon on the menu.

    :::image type="content" source="./../../media/7137169-hub-icon.png" alt-text="Community hub icon":::

1. Review the list of top shared CMPivot queries.

    :::image type="content" source="./../../media/7137169-cmpivot-hub-queries.png" alt-text="Top CMPivot queries from Community hub" lightbox="./../../media/7137169-cmpivot-hub-queries.png":::

1. Select one of the top queries to load it into the query pane.
1. Edit the query if needed then select **Run Query**.
1. Optionally, add the original query or your edited version to your favorites list to run later.
1. Keep the CMPivot window open to view results from clients. When you close the CMPivot window, the session is complete. If the query has been sent, then clients still send a state message response to the server.  

