---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 12/14/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_hubapp"></a> Community hub support for application content

<!--7983035-->

This release continues to iterate on the scenario to share apps via the [Community hub](../../../../servers/manage/community-hub.md). Previously you could share just the definition of the app. Another hub user could download the app's XML metadata, and create it in their site. But to actually deploy the app, they would then need to locate the app's content.

You can now download linked content for Windows Installer apps in the hub. This improvement helps you to easily get a fully functional app from the Configuration Manager community. The hub provides an integrated link to the publicly available content for the app. When you download an app with content from the hub, it downloads both the app metadata from the hub and the MSI from its shared location outside the Community hub.

After the console downloads the file, it validates the hash. This check makes sure the content didn't change during download. It then validates the digital signature on the MSI file. If it can't verify the signature, it prompts you if you still want to import the file.

To help you test this new feature, the [System Center Updates Publisher](../../../../../sum/tools/updates-publisher.md) is available as an app with content in the Community hub. When you download SCUP from the Community hub, the console downloads the installer content from the Microsoft Download Center.

> [!NOTE]
> At this time, you can't yet share an app with content in the Community hub.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Community** workspace, and select the **Community hub**.
1. Search for the app **System Center Updates Publisher**.
1. Select **Download**.
1. Specify a network path for the site to use as the content source.

After the hub downloads the app, use the following steps to verify the app:

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Software Library** workspace, expand **Application Management**, and select the **Applications** node.
1. Find the new application for **System Center Updates Publisher**.
1. To view the new Windows Installer deployment type, in the Details pane, switch to the **Deployment Types** tab.
1. To see the MSI downloaded from the Community hub, browse to the network path.

> [!NOTE]
> If you want to install this app, make sure to review the [SCUP prerequisites and installation instructions](../../../../../sum/tools/install-updates-publisher.md).
