---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 12/16/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_swctr"></a> Improved user experience and security with Software Center custom tabs

<!--8655543-->

Since current branch version 1906, you can add up to five custom tabs to Software Center. These custom tabs let you give your users easy access to common web apps and other sites. Previously, to display websites Software Center used the Windows built-in Internet Explorer browser control.

Starting in this release, Software Center can now use the Microsoft Edge WebView2 browser control. The WebView2 browser control provides improved security and user experience. For example, more websites should work with these custom tabs without displaying script errors or security warnings.

:::image type="content" source="../../media/software-center-custom-tab.png" alt-text="Software Center with a custom tab of the Microsoft website" lightbox="../../media/software-center-custom-tab.png":::

### Prerequisites for Software Center custom tabs

The following components are required on the client device:

- [Microsoft .NET Framework version 4.6.2 or later](/dotnet/framework/install/)
- [Microsoft Edge WebView2 runtime](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/#download-section) via the **Evergreen standalone installer**
- In this release, the user that runs Software Center needs local **Administrator** rights.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

In this release, you currently have to manually install the Microsoft Edge WebView2 browser control on the client. If you don't install this extension, Software Center continues to use the legacy Internet Explorer control. At this time, only use the **Evergreen Standalone Installer**. To download this installer, see [Download the WebView2 Runtime](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/#download-section).

You can use Configuration Manager to install this runtime on clients as an application. For more information, see [Deploy applications](../../../../../apps/deploy-use/deploy-applications.md)

Then configure Software Center to display a custom tab. For more information, see [Software Center client settings](../../../../clients/deploy/about-client-settings.md#software-center-customization---tabs).
