memdocs/configmgr/develop/reference/osd/refreshpkgsource-method-in-class-sms_bootimagepackage.md, before:

---
title: "RefreshPkgSource Method in SMS_BootImagePackage"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
ms.date: "09/20/2016"
ms.prod: "configuration-manager"
ms.technology: configmgr-sdk
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 933e7fbb-bb94-465d-ab89-952d35625a24
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: null
ms.collection: openauth


---
# RefreshPkgSource Method in Class SMS_BootImagePackage
The `RefreshPkgSource` Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) class method, in Configuration Manager, refreshes the package source at all distribution points.  

 The following syntax is simplified from Managed Object Format (MOF) code and defines the method.  

## Syntax  

```  
SInt32 RefreshPkgSource(  
      String ContextID  
);  
```  

#### Parameters  
 `ContextID`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Qualifiers: [in, optional]  

 The ID of the context that is associated with the boot image package status.  

## Return Values  
 An `SInt32` data type that is 0 to indicate success or non-zero to indicate failure.  

 For information about handling returned errors, see [About Configuration Manager Errors](../../../develop/core/understand/about-configuration-manager-errors.md).  

## Remarks  
 This method copies the latest version of the package to all the distribution points of the package. The source version of the package is incremented, and the package content is replicated to child sites.  

 Using this method is the only way to force an update of the source files, other than by creating a `RefreshSchedule` value for the package. For information about the `RefreshSchedule` property, see [SMS_PackageBaseclass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/core/servers/configure/sms_packagebaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 If the call to this method fails, check the Smsprov.log file on the SMS Provider for more information.  

## Requirements  

## Runtime Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Server Runtime Requirements](../../../develop/core/reqs/server-runtime-requirements.md).  

## Development Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Server Development Requirements](../../../develop/core/reqs/server-development-requirements.md).  

## See Also  
 [SMS_ImagePackage Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/osd/sms_imagepackage-server-wmi-class.md)

Commit message:

[Bulk] Validation: Fix missing description in metadata 3/31

memdocs/configmgr/develop/reference/osd/refreshpkgsource-method-in-class-sms_bootimagepackage.md, after:

---
title: "RefreshPkgSource Method in SMS_BootImagePackage"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
description: "In Configuration Manager, the RefreshPkgSource WMI class method refreshes the package source at all distribution points."
ms.date: "09/20/2016"
ms.prod: "configuration-manager"
ms.technology: configmgr-sdk
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 933e7fbb-bb94-465d-ab89-952d35625a24
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: null
ms.collection: openauth


---
# RefreshPkgSource Method in Class SMS_BootImagePackage
The `RefreshPkgSource` Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) class method, in Configuration Manager, refreshes the package source at all distribution points.  

 The following syntax is simplified from Managed Object Format (MOF) code and defines the method.  

## Syntax  

```  
SInt32 RefreshPkgSource(  
      String ContextID  
);  
```  

#### Parameters  
 `ContextID`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Qualifiers: [in, optional]  

 The ID of the context that is associated with the boot image package status.  

## Return Values  
 An `SInt32` data type that is 0 to indicate success or non-zero to indicate failure.  

 For information about handling returned errors, see [About Configuration Manager Errors](../../../develop/core/understand/about-configuration-manager-errors.md).  

## Remarks  
 This method copies the latest version of the package to all the distribution points of the package. The source version of the package is incremented, and the package content is replicated to child sites.  

 Using this method is the only way to force an update of the source files, other than by creating a `RefreshSchedule` value for the package. For information about the `RefreshSchedule` property, see [SMS_PackageBaseclass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/core/servers/configure/sms_packagebaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 If the call to this method fails, check the Smsprov.log file on the SMS Provider for more information.  

## Requirements  

## Runtime Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Server Runtime Requirements](../../../develop/core/reqs/server-runtime-requirements.md).  

## Development Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Server Development Requirements](../../../develop/core/reqs/server-development-requirements.md).  

## See Also  
 [SMS_ImagePackage Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/osd/sms_imagepackage-server-wmi-class.md)
