memdocs/configmgr/develop/reference/osd/sms_tasksequence_installdeploytoolsaction-server-wmi-class.md, before:

---
title: "SMS_TaskSequence_InstallDeployToolsAction Class"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
ms.date: "09/20/2016"
ms.prod: "configuration-manager"
ms.technology: configmgr-sdk
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 9b0fd68e-cb8f-4998-aef8-7c656dfd9d11
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: null
ms.collection: openauth


---
# SMS_TaskSequence_InstallDeployToolsAction Server WMI Class
The `SMS_TaskSequence_InstallDeployToolsAction` Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) class is an SMS Provider server class, in Configuration Manager, that represents a task sequence action that specifies the Sysprep package to use with the operating system to capture the reference computer settings.  

 The following syntax is simplified from Managed Object Format (MOF) code and includes all inherited properties.  

## Syntax  

```  
Class SMS_TaskSequence_InstallDeployToolsAction : SMS_TaskSequence_Action  
{  
      SMS_TaskSequence_Condition Condition;  
      Boolean ContinueOnError;  
      String Description;  
      Boolean Enabled;  
      String Name;  
      String SupportedEnvironment;  
      String SysprepPackageID;  
      UInt32 Timeout;  
};  
```  

## Methods  
 The `SMS_TaskSequence_InstallDeployToolsAction` class does not define any methods.  

## Properties  
 `Condition`  
 Data type: `SMS_TaskSequence_Condition`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: None  

 See [SMS_TaskSequence_Action Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/osd/sms_tasksequence_action-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `ContinueOnError`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: None  

 See [SMS_TaskSequence_Action Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/osd/sms_tasksequence_action-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `Description`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [AllowedLen("0-255")]  

 See [SMS_TaskSequence_Action Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/osd/sms_tasksequence_action-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `Enabled`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: None  

 See [SMS_TaskSequence_Action Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/osd/sms_tasksequence_action-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `Name`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [AllowedLen("1-100")]  

 See [SMS_TaskSequence_Action Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/osd/sms_tasksequence_action-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `SupportedEnvironment`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [Not_Null:ToInstance]  

 See [SMS_TaskSequence_Action Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/osd/sms_tasksequence_action-server-wmi-class.md).  

 The default value of this property for this task sequence action is FullOS.  

 `SysprepPackageID`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [Not_null, CommandLineArg(1), TaskSequencePackage]  

 ID of the package containing Sysprep and deployment tools.  

 `Timeout`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: None  

 See [SMS_TaskSequence_Action Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/osd/sms_tasksequence_action-server-wmi-class.md).  

## Remarks  
 Class qualifiers for this class include:  

 [CommandLine("osdprepareos.exe /install:%1"),  

 ActionCategory{"Images,5,5"},ActionUI{"AdminUI.TaskSequenceEditor.dll", "Microsoft.ConfigurationManagement.AdminConsole.TaskSequenceEditor", "DeploymentToolsControl", "TaskSequenceOptionControl"}]  

 For more information about both the class qualifiers and the property qualifiers included in the Properties section, see [Configuration Manager Class and Property Qualifiers](../../../develop/reference/misc/class-and-property-qualifiers.md).  

## Requirements  

### Runtime Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Server Runtime Requirements](../../../develop/core/reqs/server-runtime-requirements.md).  

### Development Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Server Development Requirements](../../../develop/core/reqs/server-development-requirements.md).  

## See also

[SMS_TaskSequence_Action Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/osd/sms_tasksequence_action-server-wmi-class.md)

Commit message:

Validation fixes for missing description.

memdocs/configmgr/develop/reference/osd/sms_tasksequence_installdeploytoolsaction-server-wmi-class.md, after:

---
title: "SMS_TaskSequence_InstallDeployToolsAction Class"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
description: "An SMS Provider server class that represents a task sequence action to specify the Sysprep package for use with the operating system. The Sysprep package captures the reference computer settings."
ms.date: "09/20/2016"
ms.prod: "configuration-manager"
ms.technology: configmgr-sdk
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 9b0fd68e-cb8f-4998-aef8-7c656dfd9d11
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: null
ms.collection: openauth


---
# SMS_TaskSequence_InstallDeployToolsAction Server WMI Class
The `SMS_TaskSequence_InstallDeployToolsAction` Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) class is an SMS Provider server class, in Configuration Manager, that represents a task sequence action that specifies the Sysprep package to use with the operating system to capture the reference computer settings.  

 The following syntax is simplified from Managed Object Format (MOF) code and includes all inherited properties.  

## Syntax  

```  
Class SMS_TaskSequence_InstallDeployToolsAction : SMS_TaskSequence_Action  
{  
      SMS_TaskSequence_Condition Condition;  
      Boolean ContinueOnError;  
      String Description;  
      Boolean Enabled;  
      String Name;  
      String SupportedEnvironment;  
      String SysprepPackageID;  
      UInt32 Timeout;  
};  
```  

## Methods  
 The `SMS_TaskSequence_InstallDeployToolsAction` class does not define any methods.  

## Properties  
 `Condition`  
 Data type: `SMS_TaskSequence_Condition`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: None  

 See [SMS_TaskSequence_Action Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/osd/sms_tasksequence_action-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `ContinueOnError`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: None  

 See [SMS_TaskSequence_Action Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/osd/sms_tasksequence_action-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `Description`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [AllowedLen("0-255")]  

 See [SMS_TaskSequence_Action Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/osd/sms_tasksequence_action-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `Enabled`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: None  

 See [SMS_TaskSequence_Action Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/osd/sms_tasksequence_action-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `Name`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [AllowedLen("1-100")]  

 See [SMS_TaskSequence_Action Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/osd/sms_tasksequence_action-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `SupportedEnvironment`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [Not_Null:ToInstance]  

 See [SMS_TaskSequence_Action Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/osd/sms_tasksequence_action-server-wmi-class.md).  

 The default value of this property for this task sequence action is FullOS.  

 `SysprepPackageID`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [Not_null, CommandLineArg(1), TaskSequencePackage]  

 ID of the package containing Sysprep and deployment tools.  

 `Timeout`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: None  

 See [SMS_TaskSequence_Action Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/osd/sms_tasksequence_action-server-wmi-class.md).  

## Remarks  
 Class qualifiers for this class include:  

 [CommandLine("osdprepareos.exe /install:%1"),  

 ActionCategory{"Images,5,5"},ActionUI{"AdminUI.TaskSequenceEditor.dll", "Microsoft.ConfigurationManagement.AdminConsole.TaskSequenceEditor", "DeploymentToolsControl", "TaskSequenceOptionControl"}]  

 For more information about both the class qualifiers and the property qualifiers included in the Properties section, see [Configuration Manager Class and Property Qualifiers](../../../develop/reference/misc/class-and-property-qualifiers.md).  

## Requirements  

### Runtime Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Server Runtime Requirements](../../../develop/core/reqs/server-runtime-requirements.md).  

### Development Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Server Development Requirements](../../../develop/core/reqs/server-development-requirements.md).  

## See also

[SMS_TaskSequence_Action Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/osd/sms_tasksequence_action-server-wmi-class.md)
