---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 12/11/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_osd"></a> Improvements to OS deployment

This release includes the following improvements to OS deployment:

- Based on your feedback, the task sequence environment includes a new read-only variable, `_TSSecureBoot`.<!--5842295--> Use this variable to determine the state of secure boot on a UEFI-enabled device. The variable can have one of the following values:

  - `NA`: The associated registry value doesn't exist, which means the device doesn't support secure boot.
  - `Enabled`: The device has secure boot enabled.
  - `Disabled`: The device has secure boot disabled.

- You can now set task sequence variables to configure the user context that the [Run Command Line](../../../../../osd/understand/task-sequence-steps.md#BKMK_RunCommandLine) and [Run PowerShell Script](../../../../../osd/understand/task-sequence-steps.md#BKMK_RunPowerShellScript) steps use.<!-- 5573175 --> For example, now you don't need to configure the **Run Command Line** step with a placeholder account to use the [SMSTSRunCommandLineUserName](../../../../../osd/understand/task-sequence-variables.md#SMSTSRunCommandLineUserName) and [SMSTSRunCommandLineUserPassword](../../../../../osd/understand/task-sequence-variables.md#SMSTSRunCommandLineUserPassword) variables.

  Configure `SMSTSRunCommandLineAsUser` with one of the following values:

  - `true`: Any further **Run Command Line** steps run in the context of the user specified in `SMSTSRunCommandLineUserName`.
  - `false`: Any further **Run Command Line** steps run in the context that you configured on the step.

  Configure `SMSTSRunPowerShellAsUser` with the same values to apply to **Run PowerShell Script** steps.

- Based on your feedback, you can now set the [Run PowerShell Script](../../../../../osd/understand/task-sequence-steps.md#BKMK_RunPowerShellScript) **Parameters** property to a variable.<!-- 5690481 --> For example, if you specify `%MyScriptVariable%`, when the task sequence runs the script, it adds the value of this custom variable to the PowerShell command line.
