---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/28/2021
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_errorfeedback"></a> Send product feedback from error windows

<!--4262917-->

Previously, if the Configuration Manager console reported an error in a separate window, you had to go back to the main console window to send feedback. In some cases, this action isn't possible with other console windows open.

Starting in this release, error messages include a link to **Report error to Microsoft**. This action opens the standard "send a frown" window to provide feedback. It automatically includes details about the user interface and the error to better help Microsoft engineers diagnose the error. Aside from making it easier to send a frown, it also lets you include the full context of the error message when you share a screenshot.

:::image type="content" source="../../media/4262917-report-error.png" alt-text="Report error to Microsoft action in Configuration Manager console" lightbox="../../media/4262917-report-error.png":::

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

Use the following steps to easily demonstrate an error and then start the process to provide feedback:

1. In the Configuration Manager console, open the properties for any custom collection.

1. On the **Membership Rules** tab, in the **Add Rule** list, select **Query Rule**.

1. In the Query Rule Properties window, select **Edit Query Statement**.

1. In the collection's Query Statement Properties window, select **Show Query Language**.

1. Change the default query statement to `Select * from not-a-class`.

1. Select the green triangle to open the Query Results Preview window, and then select **Run**.

1. You'll see an error message. Select **Report error to Microsoft** to open the Provide Feedback wizard. For more information on this wizard, see [Send a frown](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md#send-a-frown).
