---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/28/2021
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_invext"></a> Custom properties for devices

<!--8939867-->

Many customers have other data that's external to Configuration Manager but useful for deployment targeting, collection building, and reporting. This data is typically non-technical in nature, not discoverable on the client, and comes from a single external source. For example, a central IT Infrastructure Library (ITIL) system or asset database, which has some of the following device attributes:

- Physical location
- Organizational priority
- Category
- Cost center
- Department

Starting in this release, you can use the [administration service](../../../../../develop/adminservice/index.yml) to set this data on devices. You can then use the custom properties in Configuration Manager for reporting or to create collections.

This feature is based on the following feedback:

- Create Collection based on Machine variables query

- Add new Device tab with custom properties (Variables)

### Prerequisites for custom properties

The account that makes the API calls requires the following permissions on a collection that contains the target device:

- To set properties: **Modify Resource**
- To view properties: **Read Resource**
- To remove properties: **Delete Resource**

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

#### Create custom properties

To create the custom properties, [use the administration service](../../../../../develop/adminservice/usage.md). The site stores the property's name and its value in the site database as the new **Device Extension Data** class.

The following admin service API examples show how you can set, view, and remove the custom properties. These examples use PowerShell to make the API calls, but there are other methods you can use. To use these examples in your environment, change the variable values for the SMS Provider (**provider**) and resource ID (**resourceID**).

> [!WARNING]
> These sample scripts enable the `ServicePointManager.ServerCertificateValidationCallback` property. This configuration allows _any_ certificate to pass validation for HTTPS. Use of this command is only for ease of testing in a lab environment. Don't use it in a production environment. For more information about how to enable secure HTTPS communication, see [How to set up the administration service](../../../../../develop/adminservice/set-up.md).

##### Set custom properties on a device

To set properties on a device, use the **SetExtensionData** API. Make a POST call to the URI `https://<SMSProviderFQDN>/AdminService/v1.0/Device(<DeviceResourceID>)/AdminService.SetExtensionData` with a JSON body. This example sets two name-value pairs for the device's asset tag and location.

```powershell
$provider = "cm01.contoso.com"
$resourceID = "16777345"
$uri = "https://$provider/AdminService/v1.0/Device($resourceID)/AdminService.SetExtensionData"
$body = "{ExtensionData:{""AssetTag"":""0580255"",""Location"":""Inis Oirr""}}"
[System.Net.ServicePointManager]::ServerCertificateValidationCallback = {$true};
Invoke-RestMethod -Method "Post" -Uri $uri -UseDefaultCredentials -Body $body -ContentType "application/json"
```

##### View custom properties on a single device

To view properties on a single device, use the **GetExtensionData** API for a specific device. Make a GET call to the URI `https://<SMSProviderFQDN>/AdminService/v1.0/Device(<DeviceResourceID>)/AdminService.GetExtensionData`.

```powershell
$provider = "cm01.contoso.com"
$resourceID = "16777345"
$uri = "https://$provider/AdminService/v1.0/Device($resourceID)/AdminService.GetExtensionData"
[System.Net.ServicePointManager]::ServerCertificateValidationCallback = {$true};
Invoke-RestMethod -Method "Get" -Uri $uri -UseDefaultCredentials
```

##### View custom properties on all devices

To view properties on all devices, use the **GetExtensionData** API without a device ID. Make a GET call to the URI `https://<SMSProviderFQDN>/AdminService/v1.0/Device/AdminService.GetExtensionData`. This call returns property values from devices to which you have read permission.

```powershell
$provider = "cm01.contoso.com"
$uri = "https://$provider/AdminService/v1.0/Device/AdminService.GetExtensionData"
[System.Net.ServicePointManager]::ServerCertificateValidationCallback = {$true};
Invoke-RestMethod -Method "Get" -Uri $uri -UseDefaultCredentials
```

##### Remove custom properties

To remove properties values from all devices, use the **DeleteExtensionData** API without a device ID. Include a device resource ID to only remove properties from a specific device. Make a POST call to the URI `https://<SMSProviderFQDN>/AdminService/v1.0/Device/AdminService.DeleteExtensionData`.

```powershell
$provider = "cm01.contoso.com"
$uri = "https://$provider/AdminService/v1.0/Device/AdminService.DeleteExtensionData"
[System.Net.ServicePointManager]::ServerCertificateValidationCallback = {$true};
Invoke-RestMethod -Method "Post" -Uri $uri -UseDefaultCredentials
```

#### Create a collection

Use the following steps to create a collection with a query rule based on the custom properties:

1. In the Configuration Manager console, [Create a collection](../../../../clients/manage/collections/create-collections.md).
1. On the Membership Rules page, in the **Add Rule** list, select **Query rule**.
1. In the Query Rule Properties window, specify a **Name** for the query. Then select **Edit Query Statement**.
1. In the Query Statement Properties window, switch to the **Criteria** tab. Then select the golden asterisk (`*`) to add new criteria.
1. In the Criterion Properties window, **Select** the following values:

    - Attribute class: **Device Extension Data**
    - Attribute: **PropertyName**

1. Select an **Operator** and then specify the name of the property as the **Value**.

    At this point, the Criterion Properties window should look similar to the following image:

    :::image type="content" source="../../media/8939867-property-name.png" alt-text="Criterion Properties window for Device Extension Data PropertyName":::

    Select **OK** to save the criterion.

1. Repeat the steps to add a criterion for the **PropertyValue** attribute.

    At this point, the collection Query Statement Properties window should look similar to the following image:

    :::image type="content" source="../../media/8939867-query-statement-properties.png" alt-text="Query Statement Properties window with both Device Extension Data criteria":::

1. Select **OK** to close all property windows. Then complete the wizard to create the collection.

You can also use the following sample query. In the query statement properties window, select **Show Query Language** to paste the query statement.

```sql
select SMS_R_SYSTEM.ResourceID,SMS_R_SYSTEM.ResourceType,SMS_R_SYSTEM.Name,SMS_R_SYSTEM.SMSUniqueIdentifier,SMS_R_SYSTEM.ResourceDomainORWorkgroup,SMS_R_SYSTEM.Client 
from SMS_R_System inner join SMS_G_System_ExtensionData on SMS_G_System_ExtensionData.ResourceId = SMS_R_System.ResourceId 
where SMS_G_System_ExtensionData.PropertyName = "AssetTag" and SMS_G_System_ExtensionData.PropertyValue = "0580255"
```
