---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/28/2021
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_ext"></a> Hierarchy approved console extensions don't require signing
<!--9761129-->
Starting in this technical preview, you can choose to allow unsigned [hierarchy approved console extensions](../../../../servers/manage/admin-console-extensions.md). You may need to allow unsigned console extensions due to an unsigned internally developed extension, or for testing your own custom extension in a lab.

### To allow unsigned hierarchy approved console extensions:

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Administration** workspace, expand **Site Configuration**, and select **Sites**.
1. Select **Hierarchy Settings** from the ribbon.
1. On the **General** tab, enable the **Hierarchy approved console extensions can be unsigned** option.
1. Select **Ok** when done to close the **Hierarchy Settings Properties**.

### Import a console extension for hierarchy approval

When you have the `.cab` file for an extension, you can test it in a Configuration Manager lab environment. You'll do this by posting it through the [administration service](../../../../../develop/adminservice/usage.md). Once the extension is inserted into the site, you can approve it and install it locally from the **Console Extensions** node.

Run the following PowerShell script after editing the `$adminServiceProvider` and `$cabFilePath`:
   - `$adminServiceProvider` - The top-level SMSProvider server where the administration service is installed
   - `$cabFilePath` - Path to the extension's  `.cab` file
 
```powershell
$adminServiceProvider = "SMSProviderServer.contoso.com"
$cabFilePath = "C:\Testing\MyExtension.cab"
$adminServiceURL = "https://$adminServiceProvider/AdminService/v1/ConsoleExtensionMetadata/AdminService.UploadExtension"
$cabFileName = (Get-Item -Path $cabFilePath).Name
$Data = Get-Content $cabFilePath
$Bytes = [System.IO.File]::ReadAllBytes($cabFilePath)
$base64Content = [Convert]::ToBase64String($Bytes)

$Headers = @{
    "Content-Type" = "Application/json"
}

$Body = @{
            CabFile = @{
                FileName = $cabFileName
                FileContent = $base64Content
            }
            AllowUnsigned = $true
        } | ConvertTo-Json

$result = Invoke-WebRequest -Method Post -Uri $adminServiceURL -Body $Body -Headers $Headers -UseDefaultCredentials

if ($result.StatusCode -eq 200) {Write-Host "$cabFileName was published successfully."}
else {Write-Host "$cabFileName publish failed. Review AdminService.log for more information."}
```

### <a name="bkmk_local_install"></a> Install and test an extension on a local console

1. Change the [security scope](../../.././../understand/fundamentals-of-role-based-administration.md#security-scopes) for the extension. Changing the security scope is recommended for initial testing of an extension.
   1. Go to the **Console Extensions** node under **Administration** > **Overview** > **Updates and Servicing**.
   1. Select the extension, then select **Set Security Scopes** from the ribbon.
   1. Remove the **Default** security scope and add a scope that only contains one or two admins for initial testing.
   1. Choose **OK** to save the security scope for the extension.

1. Approve the extension by selecting **Approve Installation** from the ribbon or right-click menu.
   - If the extension isn't approved, you won't be able to install it or enable in-console notifications for it.
   - If you restart your console at this point, a notification about the available extension won't occur since you haven't enabled the option yet.
1. Install the extension on the local console by choosing **Install**.
1. Once the extension is installed, verify it displays and you can use it from the local console.
1. If needed, edit the security scope and [**Enable Notifications**](../../../../servers/manage/admin-console-extensions.md#bkmk_enable-notifications) to target other admins with the in-console notification for installing the extension.
