memdocs/configmgr/develop/core/servers/console/console-extension-deployment.md, before:

---
title: "Console Extension Deployment"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
ms.date: "09/20/2016"
ms.prod: "configuration-manager"
ms.technology: configmgr-sdk
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.assetid: d15d00a9-a77a-4916-88c6-0ac04234fc1e
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: null
ms.collection: openauth


---
# Configuration Manager Console Extension Deployment
The deployment of a typical Configuration Manager extension has to account for actions, forms, views, management classes and node extensions.  

 When you deploy a Configuration Manager extension, you install the files in the following directories:  

|Extension Type|Directory|  
|--------------------|---------------|  
|Actions|%ProgramFiles%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\bin for the assembly<br /><br /> %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\Actions for the action XML files|  
|Forms|%*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\bin for the assembly<br /><br /> %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\Forms for the form XML files|  
|Views|%*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\bin for the assembly|  
|Nodes|%ProgramFiles%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\bin for the assembly<br /><br /> %*ProgramFiles*%Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\Nodes for the node XML files|  
|ManagementClasses|%ProgramFiles%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\bin for the assembly<br /><br /> %ProgramFiles%Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\ManagementClasses for the management classes XML files|  

 You must also perform the following tasks during installing and uninstalling actions.  

## Custom Actions  

### Installing a Custom Action  
 To install a custom action XML file, copy the file to the %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\Actions\\<GUID\> folder, where \<GUID> is the GUID identifier for the node that the action applies to.  

### Removing a Custom Action  
 To remove a custom action, delete the custom action XML file. If there are no other XML files in the folder then it is safe to remove the folder.  

## Forms  

### Installing a Form  
 You copy the form assembly to either %*ProgramFiles*%\ Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\bin or to your application's installation folder.  

 If you are deploying to a directory other than the %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\bin folder, the form XML<`Assembly`> attribute, `Name`, should include the assembly filename and the full path to the file. For more information, see [How to Create Form XML for a Configuration Manager Property Sheet](../../../../develop/core/servers/console/how-to-create-form-xml-for-a-configuration-manager-property-sheet.md).  

 To install an extension property sheet XML file for a form, copy the file to the %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\Forms folder. Because all extension forms are placed in this folder, you must ensure that your XML file has a unique name. It is suggested that you use your company name as part of the file name.  

 If the form is an extension of an existing property sheet, you must determine whether the property sheet already exists in the Extensions\Forms folder, then add your property page to that property sheet.  

 When the Configuration Manager console loads, it loads property sheets in the Extensions\Forms folder in preference to existing property sheets.  

 You should use the `VendorId` attribute of the `Page` element, because this allows other vendors to identify and avoid changing your extensions.  

### Removing a Form  
 To remove a form that does not extend an existing property sheet, remove the property sheet XML file from the folder %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\Forms.  

 To remove a property page that you have added to an existing property sheet, you must take the following actions with the property sheet:  

-   Check the property pages for VendorIDs other than Microsoft Corporation. If none exist then it is safe to delete the property sheet XML file from the Extensions\Forms folder.  

-   If other VendorIDs exist, remove your property page XML from the property sheet, and leave the property sheet in the Extensions\Forms folder.  

## Views  

### Installing a View  
 To install a view, copy the view assembly to the %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\bin folder, or to your application's installation folder.  

 If you are deploying to a folder other than %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\bin, the node XML<`Assembly`> element should include the assembly filename and the full path to the file. For more information, see [How to Create Node XML for a Configuration Manager Console View](../../../../develop/core/servers/console/how-to-create-node-xml-for-a-configuration-manager-console-grid-view.md).  

 You must also copy the node XML that integrates the view into the Configuration Manager console to the %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\Nodes\\<GUID folder\>, where \<GUID> is the GUID identifier for the node that the action applies to. For more information, see the "Nodes" section later in this topic.  

### Removing a View  
 To remove a view, delete the view assembly from the %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\bin folder. You must ensure that no other extension is referencing the view before you delete it. You must also delete the view's node XML file from the %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\Nodes\\<GUID\> folder, where \<GUID> is the GUID identifier for the node that the action applies to.  

## Custom Management  Classes  

### Installing a Custom Management Class  
 Copy the management class assembly to either %*ProgramFiles*%\ Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\bin or to your application's installation folder.  

 To install an custom management class XML file, copy the file to the %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\ManagementClasses folder. Because all custom management classes are placed in this folder, you must ensure that your XML file has a unique name. It is suggested that you use your company name as part of the file name.  

### Removing a Custom Management Class  
 To remove a custom management class, delete the custom management class XML file. If there are no other XML files in the folder then it is safe to remove the folder.  

## Nodes  

### Installing a Node  
 To install a node, create a folder %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\Nodes\\<GUID\> , where \<GUID> is the GUID identifier of the Configuration Manager console parent node. Copy the node XML file to the GUID folder. For more information, see [About console nodes](about-configuration-manager-console-nodes.md).  

### Removing a Node  
 To remove a node, delete the node XML file from the %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\Nodes\\<GUID\> folder.  

## See Also  
 [About Configuration Manager Console Extension](../../../../develop/core/servers/console/about-configuration-manager-console-extension.md)   
 [About Configuration Manager console actions](configuration-manager-actions.md)
 [About console forms](about-configuration-manager-console-forms.md)
[About console management classes](about-configuration-manager-console-management-classes.md)
 [About console nodes](about-configuration-manager-console-nodes.md)
 [About console views](about-configuration-manager-console-views.md)

Commit message:

Add Warning against placing console extension assemblies in bin folder.
Spend several days troubleshooting exactly this.  I realize that this whole process is now deprecated but I assure you that other vendors will be waaaaay behind the curve here.  Suggesting using the bin folder was really not a great suggestion/design in the first place and when I worked with the team on the new design I pushed hard to avoid this problem and they did.
If console extension A has dependency Y and so does extension B ... then unless their the _exact_ save version (spoiler: they won't be) then the last extension wins and the first is broken.

memdocs/configmgr/develop/core/servers/console/console-extension-deployment.md, after:

---
title: "Console Extension Deployment"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
ms.date: "09/20/2016"
ms.prod: "configuration-manager"
ms.technology: configmgr-sdk
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.assetid: d15d00a9-a77a-4916-88c6-0ac04234fc1e
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: null
ms.collection: openauth


---
# Configuration Manager Console Extension Deployment
The deployment of a typical Configuration Manager extension has to account for actions, forms, views, management classes and node extensions.  

 When you deploy a Configuration Manager extension, you install the files in the following directories:  

|Extension Type|Directory|  
|--------------------|---------------|  
|Actions|%ProgramFiles%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\bin for the assembly<br /><br /> %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\Actions for the action XML files|  
|Forms|%*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\bin for the assembly<br /><br /> %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\Forms for the form XML files|  
|Views|%*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\bin for the assembly|  
|Nodes|%ProgramFiles%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\bin for the assembly<br /><br /> %*ProgramFiles*%Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\Nodes for the node XML files|  
|ManagementClasses|%ProgramFiles%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\bin for the assembly<br /><br /> %ProgramFiles%Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\ManagementClasses for the management classes XML files|  

 > [!IMPORTANT]
> Placing your assemblies and dependencies in the %ProgramFiles%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\bin folder may create conflicts with other console extensions and prevent your extension from loading.
 
 You must also perform the following tasks during installing and uninstalling actions.  

## Custom Actions  

### Installing a Custom Action  
 To install a custom action XML file, copy the file to the %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\Actions\\<GUID\> folder, where \<GUID> is the GUID identifier for the node that the action applies to.  

### Removing a Custom Action  
 To remove a custom action, delete the custom action XML file. If there are no other XML files in the folder then it is safe to remove the folder.  

## Forms  

### Installing a Form  
 You copy the form assembly to either %*ProgramFiles*%\ Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\bin or to your application's installation folder.  

 If you are deploying to a directory other than the %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\bin folder, the form XML<`Assembly`> attribute, `Name`, should include the assembly filename and the full path to the file. For more information, see [How to Create Form XML for a Configuration Manager Property Sheet](../../../../develop/core/servers/console/how-to-create-form-xml-for-a-configuration-manager-property-sheet.md).  

 To install an extension property sheet XML file for a form, copy the file to the %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\Forms folder. Because all extension forms are placed in this folder, you must ensure that your XML file has a unique name. It is suggested that you use your company name as part of the file name.  

 If the form is an extension of an existing property sheet, you must determine whether the property sheet already exists in the Extensions\Forms folder, then add your property page to that property sheet.  

 When the Configuration Manager console loads, it loads property sheets in the Extensions\Forms folder in preference to existing property sheets.  

 You should use the `VendorId` attribute of the `Page` element, because this allows other vendors to identify and avoid changing your extensions.  

### Removing a Form  
 To remove a form that does not extend an existing property sheet, remove the property sheet XML file from the folder %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\Forms.  

 To remove a property page that you have added to an existing property sheet, you must take the following actions with the property sheet:  

-   Check the property pages for VendorIDs other than Microsoft Corporation. If none exist then it is safe to delete the property sheet XML file from the Extensions\Forms folder.  

-   If other VendorIDs exist, remove your property page XML from the property sheet, and leave the property sheet in the Extensions\Forms folder.  

## Views  

### Installing a View  
 To install a view, copy the view assembly to the %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\bin folder, or to your application's installation folder.  

 If you are deploying to a folder other than %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\bin, the node XML<`Assembly`> element should include the assembly filename and the full path to the file. For more information, see [How to Create Node XML for a Configuration Manager Console View](../../../../develop/core/servers/console/how-to-create-node-xml-for-a-configuration-manager-console-grid-view.md).  

 You must also copy the node XML that integrates the view into the Configuration Manager console to the %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\Nodes\\<GUID folder\>, where \<GUID> is the GUID identifier for the node that the action applies to. For more information, see the "Nodes" section later in this topic.  

### Removing a View  
 To remove a view, delete the view assembly from the %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\bin folder. You must ensure that no other extension is referencing the view before you delete it. You must also delete the view's node XML file from the %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\Nodes\\<GUID\> folder, where \<GUID> is the GUID identifier for the node that the action applies to.  

## Custom Management  Classes  

### Installing a Custom Management Class  
 Copy the management class assembly to either %*ProgramFiles*%\ Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\bin or to your application's installation folder.  

 To install an custom management class XML file, copy the file to the %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\ManagementClasses folder. Because all custom management classes are placed in this folder, you must ensure that your XML file has a unique name. It is suggested that you use your company name as part of the file name.  

### Removing a Custom Management Class  
 To remove a custom management class, delete the custom management class XML file. If there are no other XML files in the folder then it is safe to remove the folder.  

## Nodes  

### Installing a Node  
 To install a node, create a folder %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\Nodes\\<GUID\> , where \<GUID> is the GUID identifier of the Configuration Manager console parent node. Copy the node XML file to the GUID folder. For more information, see [About console nodes](about-configuration-manager-console-nodes.md).  

### Removing a Node  
 To remove a node, delete the node XML file from the %*ProgramFiles*%\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Extensions\Nodes\\<GUID\> folder.  

## See Also  
 [About Configuration Manager Console Extension](../../../../develop/core/servers/console/about-configuration-manager-console-extension.md)   
 [About Configuration Manager console actions](configuration-manager-actions.md)
 [About console forms](about-configuration-manager-console-forms.md)
[About console management classes](about-configuration-manager-console-management-classes.md)
 [About console nodes](about-configuration-manager-console-nodes.md)
 [About console views](about-configuration-manager-console-views.md)
