---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 04/26/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_cmpivot"></a> CMPivot standalone
<!--3555890-->

You can now use CMPivot as a standalone app. Run it outside of the Configuration Manager console to view the real-time state of devices in your environment. This change enables you to use CMPivot on a device without first installing the console.

You can now share the power of CMPivot with other personas, such as helpdesk or security admins, who don't have the console installed on their computer. These other personas can use CMPivot to query Configuration Manager alongside the other tools that they traditionally use. By sharing this rich management data, you can work together to proactively solve business problems that cross roles.

### Prerequisites

Set up the permissions needed to run CMPivot. For more information, see [CMPivot](../../../../servers/manage/cmpivot.md#prerequisites).

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

You'll find the CMPivot app in the following path: `<site install path>\tools\CMPivot\CMPivot.exe`. You can run it from that path, or copy the entire CMPivot folder to another location.

Run CMPivot from the command line using the following parameters:

- `-sms:Connection="<namespace>"` (required): The connection path to the SMS Provider for the site. The format of the namespace is `\\<ProviderServerFullName>\root\sms\site_<siteCode>`. For example, `\\prov01\root\sms\site_ABC`.

- `-sms:CollectionID="<CollectionID>"` (required): The ID of the collection that the tool uses for queries. For example, `ABC00014`. To change the collection, close the tool, and restart it with a new collection ID.

<!-- 
- `-SMS:ConnectionType=WQL` (optional): By default, the tool connects using OData, and automatically falls back to WQL if needed. You can use this parameter to force it to use a WQL connection. 
 -->

The following command line is a complete example:
`CMPivot.exe -SMS:Connection="\\prov01\root\sms\site_ABC" -SMS:CollectionID="ABC00014"`

For more information on the benefits and use of CMPivot, see the following articles:

- [CMPivot](../../../../servers/manage/cmpivot.md) (aka.ms/cmpivot) 

- [Troubleshooting CMPivot](../../../../servers/manage/cmpivot-tsg.md)  
