---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 04/26/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_precache"></a> Pre-cache driver packages and OS images

<!--4224642-->
Task sequence pre-cache now includes additional content types. [Pre-cache content](../../../../../osd/deploy-use/configure-precache-content.md) previously only applied to OS upgrade packages. Now you can use pre-caching to reduce bandwidth consumption of OS images and driver packages.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. Create OS images for specific architectures and languages. Specify the **Architecture** and **Language** on the **Data Source** tab of the package. To determine which OS image it downloads during pre-caching, the client evaluates the architecture and language values.  

2. Create driver packages for specific hardware models. Specify the **Model** on the **General** tab of the package. To determine which driver package it downloads during pre-caching, the client evaluates the model against the **Win32_ComputerSystemProduct** WMI property.  

3. Create a task sequence with the following steps:  

    - More than one **Apply OS Image** step with conditions for the different languages and architectures.  

    - More than one **Apply Driver Package** step with conditions for the different models.  

    > [!Tip]  
    > For an example of conditional steps with the Upgrade OS step, see [Configure the pre-cache feature](../../../../../osd/deploy-use/configure-precache-content.md).  

4. Deploy the task sequence. For the pre-cache feature, configure the following settings:  

    - On the **General** tab, select **Pre-download content for this task sequence**.  

    - On the **Deployment settings** tab, configure the task sequence as **Available**.  

    - On the **Scheduling** tab, choose the currently selected time for the setting, **Schedule when this deployment will be available**. The client starts pre-caching content at the deployment's available time. When a targeted client receives this policy, the available time is in the past, thus pre-cache download starts right away. If the client receives this policy but the available time is in the future, the client doesn't start pre-caching content until the available time occurs.  

    - On the **Distribution Points** tab, configure the **Deployment options** settings. If the content isn't pre-cached before a user starts the installation, the client uses these settings.  

For more information on pre-caching behavior and functionality, see [Configure pre-cache content](../../../../../osd/deploy-use/configure-precache-content.md).
