sccm/apps/deploy-use/create-deploy-scripts.md, before:

---
title: "Create and run scripts"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
description: "Create and run scripts on client devices with Configuration Manager."
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 11/14/2017
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology:
  - configmgr-app
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: cc230ff4-7056-4339-a0a6-6a44cdbb2857
caps.latest.revision: 14
caps.handback.revision: 0
author: BrucePerlerMS
ms.author: bruceper
manager: angrobe

---

# Create and run PowerShell scripts from the Configuration Manager console

*Applies to: System Center Configuration Manager (Current Branch)*

Run Scripts is a great new feature ... <!... (Jeffrey to send pitch)...>

In Configuration Manager, in addition to using packages and programs to deploy scripts, you can use the following functionality to take the following actions:

- Create PowerShell Scripts for Configuration Manager
- Edit the scripts from the Configuration Manager console (for unsigned scripts only)
- Mark scripts as Approved or Denied, to improve security
- Run scripts on collections of Windows client PCs, and on-premises managed Windows PCs. 
    - You don't deploy scripts, instead, they are run almost immediately on client devices.
- Examine the results returned by the script in the Configuration Manager console.

>[!TIP]
>In this version of Configuration Manager, scripts are a pre-release feature. To enable scripts, see [Pre-release features in System Center Configuration Manager](/sccm/core/servers/manage/pre-release-features).

## Prerequisites

To run PowerShell scripts, the client must be running PowerShell version 3.0 or later. However, if a script you run contains functionality from a later version of PowerShell, the client on which you run the script must be running that version.

Configuration Manager clients must be running the client from the 1706 release, or later in order to run scripts.

To use scripts, you must be a member of the appropriate Configuration Manager security role.

- To import, and author scripts - Your account must have **Create** permissions for **SMS Scripts** in the **Full Administrator** security role.
- To approve, or deny scripts - Your account must have **Approve** permissions for **SMS Scripts** in the **Full Administrator** security role.
- To run scripts - Your account must have **Run Script** permissions for **Collections** in the **Compliance Settings Manager** security role.

For more information about Configuration Manager security roles, see [Fundamentals of role-based administration](/sccm/core/understand/fundamentals-of-role-based-administration).

## Run Script authors and approvers

Run Scripts uses the concept of *script authors* and *script approvers* as seperate roles for implementation of a script. Having these roles seperated allows for the important process check needed for the powerful tool that Run Scripts is.

### Scripts roles control

By default, users cannot approve a script they have authored. Because scripts are powerful, versatile, and can be deployed to many devices, you can separate the roles between the person that authors the script and the person that approves the script. These roles give an additional level of security against running a script without oversight. You can turn off this secondary approval, for ease of testing.

### Approve or Deny a script

Scripts must be approved, by the *script approver*, before they can be run. To approve a script:

1. In the Configuration Manager console, click **Software Library**.
2. In the **Software Library** workspace, click **Scripts**.
3. In the **Script** list, choose the script you want to approve or deny and then, on the **Home** tab, in the **Script** group, click **Approve/Deny**. ![Script - Approve / Deny](./media/run-scripts/RS-approve-deny.png)
4. In the **Approve or deny script** script dialog box, select **Approve** or **Deny** for the script and optionally enter a comment about your decision. ![Script - Approval](./media/run-scripts/RS-approval.png) If you deny a script, it cannot be run on client devices.
5. Complete the wizard. In the **Script** list, you see the **Approval State** column change depending on the action you took.

### Allow users to approve their own scripts

This approval is primarily used for the testing phase of script development.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, click **Administration**.
2. In the **Administration** workspace, expand **Site Configuration**, and then click **Sites**.
3. In the list of sites, choose your site and then, on the **Home** tab, in the **Sites** group, click **Hierarchy Settings**.
4. On the **General** tab of the **Hierarchy Settings Properties** dialog box, clear the checkbox **Do not allow script authors to approve their own scripts**.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>As a best practice, you shouldn't allow a script author to approve their own scripts. This should only be allowed in a lab setting. Please carefully consider the potential impact of changing this setting in a production environment.

## Create a script

1. In the Configuration Manager console, click **Software Library**.
2. In the **Software Library** workspace, click **Scripts**.
3. On the **Home** tab, in the **Create** group, click **Create Script**.
4. On the **Script** page of the Create **Script** wizard, configure the following settings:
	- **Script Name** - Enter a name for the script. Although you can create multiple scripts with the same name, using duplicate names makes it harder for you to find the script you need in the Configuration Manager console.
	- **Script language** - Currently, only PowerShell scripts are supported.
	- **Import** - Import a PowerShell script into the console. The script is displayed in the **Script** field.
	- **Clear** - Removes the current script from the Script field.
	- **Script** - Displays the currently imported script. You can edit the script in this field as necessary.
1. Complete the wizard. The new script is displayed in the **Script** list with a status of **Waiting for approval**. Before you can run this script on client devices, you must approve it.

Preview release 1710 adds several new options to the **Run Scripts** feature. For more information, see Script parameters.

## Script parameters

Adding parameters to a script provides increased flexibility for your work. The following outlines the Run Scripts feature's current capability with script parameters for; *String*, *Integer* and *List* data types. 

When you create a script that has parameters, an associated parameter page will be displayed. If your script has unsupported data types, you will get a warning. 

In the **Create Script** dialog, click **Script Parameters** under **Script**.

Each of the script parameters has its own dialog for adding further details and validation. 

### Parameter validation

Each parameter in your script will have a **Script Parameter Properties** dialog for you to add validation for that parameter. After adding validation, you should get errors if you are entering a value for a parameter that does not meet its validation.

Some examples of script parameters are:

### FirstName - String

In this example, you are able to set the properties of the string parameter, *FirstName*. Notice the optional field for **Custom error**. This field is very usefur for adding user guidance about the specific field and your guidance to the user about their interaction with the string parameter, *FirstName* in this case.

![Script parameters - string](./media/run-scripts/RS-parameters-string.png)

## Script examples

Here are some examples that illustrate scripts you might want to use with this capability.

### Ping a given computer

``` powershell

Param
(
 [String][Parameter(Mandatory=$True, Position=1)] $Computername
)

Ping $Computername
```
### Get OS version

``` powershell

Write-Output (Get-WmiObject -Class Win32_operatingSystem).Caption

```


## Security scopes

Security scopes allow control of scripts authoring and execution through assigning tags that represent user groups. For more information on using security scopes, see [Configure role-based administration for System Center Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/deploy/configure/configure-role-based-administration.md)

## Run a script

After a script is approved, it can be run against a collection you choose.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, click **Assets and Compliance**.
2. In the Assets and Compliance workspace, click **Device Collections**.
3. In the **Device Collections** list, click the collection of devices on which you want to run the script.
4. On the **Home** tab, in the **All Systems** group, click **Run Script**.
5. On the **Script** page of the **Run Script** wizard, choose a script from the list. Only approved scripts are shown.
6. Click **Next**, and then complete the wizard.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>The script is given a one-hour time period in which to run. If it does not run (for example if the PC is turned off) in this time period, you must run it again.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>The script is executed as the system or computer account on the targeted client(s). This account has very limited network access. Any access to remote systems and locations by the script must be provisioned with this in mind.

Here's what Run Scripts looks like as a work flow; create, approve, run and, monitor.

![Run Scripts - work flow](./media/run-scripts/RS-run-scripts-work-flow.png)

## Script monitoring

After you have initiated running a script on a collection of devices, use the following procedure to monitor the the operation. Note that you're both able to monitor a script, real-time, as it executes and you can also return to a report for a given Run Script execution.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, click **Monitoring**. 
2. In the **Monitoring** workspace, click **Script Status**. ![Script monitor - Script Run Status](./media/run-scripts/RS-monitoring-three-bar.png)
3. In the **Script Status** list, you view the results for each script you ran on client devices. A script exit code of **0** generally indicates that the script ran successfully.

## Troubleshooting


## See also

- links to supporting materials

Commit message:

tweak script to get battery status instead of OS version - more interesting?

sccm/apps/deploy-use/create-deploy-scripts.md, after:

---
title: "Create and run scripts"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
description: "Create and run scripts on client devices with Configuration Manager."
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 11/14/2017
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology:
  - configmgr-app
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: cc230ff4-7056-4339-a0a6-6a44cdbb2857
caps.latest.revision: 14
caps.handback.revision: 0
author: BrucePerlerMS
ms.author: bruceper
manager: angrobe

---

# Create and run PowerShell scripts from the Configuration Manager console

*Applies to: System Center Configuration Manager (Current Branch)*

Run Scripts is a great new feature ... <!... (Jeffrey to send pitch)...>

In Configuration Manager, in addition to using packages and programs to deploy scripts, you can use the following functionality to take the following actions:

- Create PowerShell Scripts for Configuration Manager
- Edit the scripts from the Configuration Manager console (for unsigned scripts only)
- Mark scripts as Approved or Denied, to improve security
- Run scripts on collections of Windows client PCs, and on-premises managed Windows PCs. 
    - You don't deploy scripts, instead, they are run almost immediately on client devices.
- Examine the results returned by the script in the Configuration Manager console.

>[!TIP]
>In this version of Configuration Manager, scripts are a pre-release feature. To enable scripts, see [Pre-release features in System Center Configuration Manager](/sccm/core/servers/manage/pre-release-features).

## Prerequisites

To run PowerShell scripts, the client must be running PowerShell version 3.0 or later. However, if a script you run contains functionality from a later version of PowerShell, the client on which you run the script must be running that version.

Configuration Manager clients must be running the client from the 1706 release, or later in order to run scripts.

To use scripts, you must be a member of the appropriate Configuration Manager security role.

- To import, and author scripts - Your account must have **Create** permissions for **SMS Scripts** in the **Full Administrator** security role.
- To approve, or deny scripts - Your account must have **Approve** permissions for **SMS Scripts** in the **Full Administrator** security role.
- To run scripts - Your account must have **Run Script** permissions for **Collections** in the **Compliance Settings Manager** security role.

For more information about Configuration Manager security roles, see [Fundamentals of role-based administration](/sccm/core/understand/fundamentals-of-role-based-administration).

## Run Script authors and approvers

Run Scripts uses the concept of *script authors* and *script approvers* as seperate roles for implementation of a script. Having these roles seperated allows for the important process check needed for the powerful tool that Run Scripts is.

### Scripts roles control

By default, users cannot approve a script they have authored. Because scripts are powerful, versatile, and can be deployed to many devices, you can separate the roles between the person that authors the script and the person that approves the script. These roles give an additional level of security against running a script without oversight. You can turn off this secondary approval, for ease of testing.

### Approve or Deny a script

Scripts must be approved, by the *script approver*, before they can be run. To approve a script:

1. In the Configuration Manager console, click **Software Library**.
2. In the **Software Library** workspace, click **Scripts**.
3. In the **Script** list, choose the script you want to approve or deny and then, on the **Home** tab, in the **Script** group, click **Approve/Deny**. ![Script - Approve / Deny](./media/run-scripts/RS-approve-deny.png)
4. In the **Approve or deny script** script dialog box, select **Approve** or **Deny** for the script and optionally enter a comment about your decision. ![Script - Approval](./media/run-scripts/RS-approval.png) If you deny a script, it cannot be run on client devices.
5. Complete the wizard. In the **Script** list, you see the **Approval State** column change depending on the action you took.

### Allow users to approve their own scripts

This approval is primarily used for the testing phase of script development.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, click **Administration**.
2. In the **Administration** workspace, expand **Site Configuration**, and then click **Sites**.
3. In the list of sites, choose your site and then, on the **Home** tab, in the **Sites** group, click **Hierarchy Settings**.
4. On the **General** tab of the **Hierarchy Settings Properties** dialog box, clear the checkbox **Do not allow script authors to approve their own scripts**.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>As a best practice, you shouldn't allow a script author to approve their own scripts. This should only be allowed in a lab setting. Please carefully consider the potential impact of changing this setting in a production environment.

## Create a script

1. In the Configuration Manager console, click **Software Library**.
2. In the **Software Library** workspace, click **Scripts**.
3. On the **Home** tab, in the **Create** group, click **Create Script**.
4. On the **Script** page of the Create **Script** wizard, configure the following settings:
	- **Script Name** - Enter a name for the script. Although you can create multiple scripts with the same name, using duplicate names makes it harder for you to find the script you need in the Configuration Manager console.
	- **Script language** - Currently, only PowerShell scripts are supported.
	- **Import** - Import a PowerShell script into the console. The script is displayed in the **Script** field.
	- **Clear** - Removes the current script from the Script field.
	- **Script** - Displays the currently imported script. You can edit the script in this field as necessary.
1. Complete the wizard. The new script is displayed in the **Script** list with a status of **Waiting for approval**. Before you can run this script on client devices, you must approve it.

Preview release 1710 adds several new options to the **Run Scripts** feature. For more information, see Script parameters.

## Script parameters

Adding parameters to a script provides increased flexibility for your work. The following outlines the Run Scripts feature's current capability with script parameters for; *String*, *Integer* and *List* data types. 

When you create a script that has parameters, an associated parameter page will be displayed. If your script has unsupported data types, you will get a warning. 

In the **Create Script** dialog, click **Script Parameters** under **Script**.

Each of the script parameters has its own dialog for adding further details and validation. 

### Parameter validation

Each parameter in your script will have a **Script Parameter Properties** dialog for you to add validation for that parameter. After adding validation, you should get errors if you are entering a value for a parameter that does not meet its validation.

Some examples of script parameters are:

### FirstName - String

In this example, you are able to set the properties of the string parameter, *FirstName*. Notice the optional field for **Custom error**. This field is very usefur for adding user guidance about the specific field and your guidance to the user about their interaction with the string parameter, *FirstName* in this case.

![Script parameters - string](./media/run-scripts/RS-parameters-string.png)

## Script examples

Here are some examples that illustrate scripts you might want to use with this capability.

### Ping a given computer

This script takes a string and uses it as a parameter for a *ping* operation.

``` powershell

Param
(
 [String][Parameter(Mandatory=$True, Position=1)] $Computername
)

Ping $Computername

```
### Get battery status

This script querries the current machine for its battery status.

``` powershell

Write-Output (Get-WmiObject -Class Win32_Battery).BatteryStatus

```


## Security scopes

Security scopes allow control of scripts authoring and execution through assigning tags that represent user groups. For more information on using security scopes, see [Configure role-based administration for System Center Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/deploy/configure/configure-role-based-administration.md)

## Run a script

After a script is approved, it can be run against a collection you choose.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, click **Assets and Compliance**.
2. In the Assets and Compliance workspace, click **Device Collections**.
3. In the **Device Collections** list, click the collection of devices on which you want to run the script.
4. On the **Home** tab, in the **All Systems** group, click **Run Script**.
5. On the **Script** page of the **Run Script** wizard, choose a script from the list. Only approved scripts are shown.
6. Click **Next**, and then complete the wizard.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>The script is given a one-hour time period in which to run. If it does not run (for example if the PC is turned off) in this time period, you must run it again.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>The script is executed as the system or computer account on the targeted client(s). This account has very limited network access. Any access to remote systems and locations by the script must be provisioned with this in mind.

Here's what Run Scripts looks like as a work flow; create, approve, run and, monitor.

![Run Scripts - work flow](./media/run-scripts/RS-run-scripts-work-flow.png)

## Script monitoring

After you have initiated running a script on a collection of devices, use the following procedure to monitor the the operation. Note that you're both able to monitor a script, real-time, as it executes and you can also return to a report for a given Run Script execution.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, click **Monitoring**. 
2. In the **Monitoring** workspace, click **Script Status**. ![Script monitor - Script Run Status](./media/run-scripts/RS-monitoring-three-bar.png)
3. In the **Script Status** list, you view the results for each script you ran on client devices. A script exit code of **0** generally indicates that the script ran successfully.

## Troubleshooting


## See also

- links to supporting materials
