---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 10/16/2018


---

## <a name="bkmk_msix"></a> Convert applications to MSIX
<!--1359029-->

Starting in version 1806, Configuration Manager supports deployment of the new Windows 10 app package (.msix) format. Now you can convert your existing Windows Installer (.msi) applications to the MSIX format. 

For more information, see [Create Windows applications](../../../../apps/get-started/creating-windows-applications.md#bkmk_general).


### Prerequisites

- A reference device running Windows 10 version 17701 or later  

- Sign in to Windows on this device as a user with local administrative rights  

- Install the following apps on this device:  

    - Configuration Manager console  

    - Install the [MSIX Packaging Tool](https://www.microsoft.com/store/productId/9N5LW3JBCXKF) from the Microsoft Store  

Don't install any other apps or services. This device is your reference system. 


### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. Elevate the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Software Library** workspace, expand **Application Management**, and select the **Applications** node.  

2. Select an application that has a Windows Installer (.msi) deployment type.  

    > [!Note]  
    > You need to be able to access the application's source content from the reference device.  
    > 
    > The application's name can't have any special characters. Configuration Manager uses the app name as the name of the output file.  
    > 
    > Don't install this application on the reference device in advance.  

3. Select **Convert to .MSIX** in the ribbon.

When the wizard completes, the MSIX Packaging Tool creates an MSIX file in the location you specified in the wizard. During this process, Configuration Manager silently installs the application on the reference device.

If the process fails, the summary page points to the log file with more information. If there's an error about capturing user state, sign out of Windows. Signing in again may resolve this issue.

### Next steps

To use this MSIX app, you first need to digitally sign it so that clients trust it. For more information on this process, see the following articles: 
- [MSIX – The MSIX Packaging Tool – signing the MSIX package](/archive/blogs/sgern/msix-the-msix-packaging-tool-signing-the-msix-package)
- [How to sign an app package using SignTool](/windows/desktop/appxpkg/how-to-sign-a-package-using-signtool)

After signing the app, create a new deployment type on the application in Configuration Manager. For more information, see [Create deployment types for the application](../../../../apps/deploy-use/create-applications.md#bkmk_create-dt).


### Known issue

<!--3212701-->
When you install the converted MSIX app, you may see the following error:  
`A main app package is required to install this optional package. Install the main package first and try again (0x80003d12)`  

There's an extra parameter in a configuration file. This parameter doesn't affect the migration process, but causes this error when installing the MSIX app. 

#### Workaround
1. Edit `C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Endpoint Manager\AdminConsole\XmlStorage\Other\MSIXPackageDeploymentTemplate.xml`  

2. Delete the following attribute: `MainPackageNameForModificationPackage=MainPackageIdentityName`  

3. Save the file.  

4. Elevate the console and start the **Convert to .MSIX** wizard.