---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/21/2019
ms.collection: M365-identity-device-management
---

## <a name="bkmk_bitlocker"></a> BitLocker management

<!--3601034-->

You can now use Configuration Manager to install and manage the Microsoft BitLocker Administration and Monitoring (MBAM) client. 

For more information, see [Microsoft expands BitLocker management capabilities for the enterprise](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/Enterprise-Mobility-Security/Microsoft-expands-BitLocker-management-capabilities-for-the/ba-p/544329).

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](/sccm/core/understand/find-help#product-feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace, expand **Endpoint Protection**, and select the **BitLocker Management (MBAM)** node.

1. In the ribbon, select the action to create a policy.  

1. On the **General** page, specify a name and optional description. Select the components to enable on clients with this policy:  

    - **Client Management**: Manage the key recovery service backup of BitLocker Drive Encryption recovery information  

    - **Operating System Drive**: Manage whether the OS drive is encrypted

1. On the **Client Management** page, specify the following settings:

    - **Configure MBAM Services**: If you enable this setting, key recovery info is automatically and silently backed up to the Configuration Manager site.  

    - **Select BitLocker recovery information to store**

    - **Enter client checking status frequency in (minutes)**

1. On the **Operating System Drive** page, specify the following settings:

    - **Operating System Drive Encryption Settings**: If you enable this setting, the user will have to put the OS drive under BitLocker protection and the drive will be encrypted. If you disable it, the user can't protect the drive.

        > [!Note]  
        > If the drive is already encrypted, and you disable this setting, the drive is decrypted.  

    - **Allow BitLocker without a compatible TPM (requires a password)**
    - **Select protector for operating system drive**
    - **Configure minimum PIN length for startup**

1. Complete the wizard.

1. Deploy the policy to a device collection.