---
author: mestew
ms.author: mstewart
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/21/2019
ms.collection: M365-identity-device-management
---

## <a name="bkmk_aadcollsync"></a> Synchronize collection membership results to Azure Active Directory groups
<!--3607475-->
You can now  enable the synchronization of collection memberships to an Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) group. This synchronization allows you to use your existing on premises grouping rules in the cloud. You can synchronize  device collections. Only Azure AD joined machines are synchronized to Azure AD. 

The Azure AD synchronization is one way, from Configuration Manager to Azure AD. Changes made in Azure AD aren't reflected in Configuration Manager collections and will be overwritten next time Configuration Manager syncs.

### Prerequisites

- [Cloud Management](/sccm/core/servers/deploy/configure/azure-services-wizard)
- [Azure Active Directory user discovery](/sccm/core/servers/deploy/configure/about-discovery-methods#azureaddisc)

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](/sccm/core/understand/find-help#product-feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

#### Add group write permission to the app

1. Go to the **Azure Active Directory Tenants** node, right-click on the app, then select **Update Application Settings**.
1. Click **Yes** and you'll be given a sign in prompt for Azure.
1. Sign in with a user that has group write permission for Azure AD.
1. Once you successfully sign in, you'll see a dialog box that reads **Application settings successfully updated**.

#### Create collection Azure AD group mapping. 

1. Right-click on a collection and select the **Cloud Sync** tab.
1. Click **Add** to select Azure AD objects.
    - If you need to remove an Azure AD group, select it then click **Remove**.
1. Select your tenant then click **Search**. You'll be prompted to sign in to Azure.
    - You can also type in a partial or full group name before clicking **Search**.
1. Once you sign in, select a group from the populated search list, then click **OK**.
1. Click **Apply** to save the collection properties.

#### Limitations

More than one tenant is allowed, but only one Azure AD user discovery can be enabled. If you enable more than one tenant for Azure AD user discovery, results for collection membership synchronization to Azure AD can be unpredictable. 