---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 06/25/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_restart"></a> Improvements to managing device restarts

<!--3601213-->

Configuration Manager provides many options to manage [device restart notifications](../../../../clients/deploy/device-restart-notifications.md). Based on your feedback, you can now configure client settings to prevent devices from automatically restarting when a deployment requires it. By default, Configuration Manager can still force devices to restart.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This new client setting applies to all application, software update, and package deployments to the device. Until a user manually restarts the device:
>
> - Software updates and app revisions may not be fully installed
> - Additional software installs may not happen

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the **Computer Restart** group of client settings, disable the following new option: **Configuration Manager can force a device to restart**. When you disable this setting, you can't specify the amounts of time after the deadline that the device is restarted or the user is presented a final countdown notification.

1. For the purposes of testing the behavior, change the frequency of the following setting to `2` minutes: **After the deadline, specify the frequency of restart reminder notifications to the user (minutes)**.

1. [Deploy an app](../../../../../apps/deploy-use/deploy-applications.md) that requires a restart. Make the deployment required with an immediate deadline.

    > [!TIP]
    > For the purposes of testing, on the app deployment type properties, go to the **Return Codes** tab. For return code value `0`, change the **Code Type** to **Hard Reboot**.

Wait or force the client to receive the updated client settings and app deployment policies. After the app installs successfully, you'll see the following notification:

:::image type="content" source="../../media/3601213-restart-your-computer.png" alt-text="Software Center notification to restart your computer":::

If you **Snooze** this notification, it will show again based on how you configure the frequency of restart reminder notifications. The device won't restart until you select **Restart** or manually restart Windows.

To help troubleshoot, use the rebootcoordinator.log and SCNotify.log files.
