---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 06/25/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_portal"></a> Use the Company Portal app on co-managed devices

<!--3601237-->

The Company Portal is the cross-platform app portal for Intune-managed devices. You can now use a preview version of the Company Portal on co-managed devices. By configuring co-managed devices to also use the Company Portal, you can provide a consistent user experience on all devices.

This preview version of the Company Portal supports the following actions:

- Launch the Company Portal app on co-managed devices and sign in with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) single sign-on (SSO).
- View available and installed Configuration Manager apps in the Company Portal alongside Intune apps.
- Install available Configuration Manager apps from the Company Portal and receive installation status information.

The behavior of the Company Portal depends upon your co-management workload configuration:

| Workload | Setting | Behavior |
|----------|---------|----------|
| Client apps | **Configuration Manager** | You can see only Configuration Manager client apps |
| Client apps | **Pilot Intune** or **Intune** | You can see both Configuration Manager and Intune client apps |
| Office Click-to-run apps | **Configuration Manager** | You can see only Configuration Manager Office click-to-run apps |
| Office Click-to-run apps | **Pilot Intune** or **Intune** | You can see only Intune Office click-to-run apps |

For more information, see [How to switch Configuration Manager workloads to Intune](../../../../../comanage/how-to-switch-workloads.md).

### Prerequisites

- Windows 10, version 1803 or later:

  - Enrolled to [co-management](../../../../../comanage/how-to-enable.md)

  - Access to [internet endpoints for Intune](../../../../../../intune/fundamentals/intune-endpoints.md)

- The user accounts that sign in to these devices require the following configurations:

  - An Azure AD identity

  - Assigned an Intune license

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. Download and install the latest Company Portal: aka.ms/CPpreview <!-- this goes to a SharePoint site that requires permissions? -->

1. Deploy the Company Portal app. You can manually install it by opening the appxbundle on a device. Depending upon the state of the [Client apps](../../../../../comanage/workloads.md#client-apps) co-management workload, use one of the following deployment processes:

    - [Create and deploy an application with Configuration Manager](../../../../../apps/get-started/create-and-deploy-an-application.md)

    - [Quickstart: Add and assign a client app with Intune](../../../../../../intune/apps/quickstart-add-assign-app.md)

    > [!TIP]
    > This preview version of the Company Portal won't automatically update from the Microsoft Store.

1. Launch the Company Portal from the Start menu. The currently signed-in user is automatically signed in to the Company Portal based on their Azure AD identity.

1. Select the **Apps** page. You should see Configuration Manager apps in the list.

1. Select one of the apps deployed from Configuration Manager, and select **Install**. The Company Portal shows installation status, and you'll see a Windows notification when it completes.

### Known issues

The following features of Software Center aren't currently available in the Company Portal:

- Uninstall or repair apps
- Some app information, for example if a restart is required or the estimated time to install.
- App groups

The following issues are currently known with this preview version:

- You can't set a preferred portal or remove Software Center.
- You'll still receive notifications from Software Center.
- If you deploy the same app from both Configuration Manager and Intune, it appears twice in the Company Portal.
- When you search Company Portal, Intune apps always display before Configuration Manager apps.
- When you use the option to **Get help** in the Company Portal, logs to assist troubleshooting aren't sent to Microsoft.
