---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 06/25/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_vpn"></a> Improvements to VPN boundary type

<!--7020519-->

This release improves upon the new VPN boundary type first introduced in [technical preview version 2005](../../technical-preview-2005.md#bkmk_vpn). You can now create more than one VPN boundary, and can detect the connection by the VPN name or description. When you open the **Create Boundary** page, and select the **VPN** type, choose one of the following options:

- **Auto detect VPN**: This option is the same behavior as before. The boundary value in the console list will be `AUT:1`. It should detect any VPN solution that uses the point-to-point tunneling protocol (PPTP). If it doesn't detect your VPN, use one of the other options.

- **Connection name**: Specify the name of the VPN connection on the device. It's the name of the network adapter in Windows for the VPN connection. Configuration Manager matches the first 251 characters of the string, but doesn't support wildcard characters or partial strings. The boundary value in the console list will be `NAM:<name>`, where `<name>` is the connection name that you specify.

  For example, you run the `ipconfig` command on the device, and one of the sections starts with: `PPP adapter ContosoVPN:`. Use the string `ContosoVPN` as the **Connection name**. It displays in the list as `NAM:ContosoVPN`.

- **Connection description**: Specify the description of the VPN connection. Configuration Manager matches the first 251 characters of the string, but doesn't support wildcard characters or partial strings. The boundary value in the console list will be `DES:<description>`, where `<description>` is the connection description that you specify.

  For example, you run the `ipconfig /all` command on the device, and one of the connections includes the following line: `Description . . . . . . . . . . . : ContosoMainVPN`. Use the string `ContosoMainVPN` as the **Connection description**. It displays in the list as `DES:ContosoMainVPN`.

In every case, the device needs to be connected to the VPN for Configuration Manager to associate the client in that boundary.
