---
author: mestew
ms.author: mstewart
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 06/25/2020
---

## Tenant Attach: Improvements to Configuration Manager actions in Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center
<!--7518897-->

This release introduces a number of improvements to the administration of Configuration Manager devices in Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center. Improvements include:

- Configuration errors now include links to documentation to help you troubleshoot.
- You can re-evaluate applications.
- User available applications now appear in the **Applications** node for a ConfigMgr device

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

#### Prerequisites

- You'll need to meet all of the prerequisites for [Tenant attach: ConfigMgr client details](../../technical-preview-2004.md#bkmk_mem)
- You'll need to meet all of the prerequisites for [Tenant attach: Install an application from the admin center](../../technical-preview-2005#bkmk_apps)
- The latest Configuration Manager client installed

#### Limitations

- Deploying an application to a user has the following limitations:
   - The user must be signed in for the app to get installed on the device.
   - Multi-user session scenarios aren't supported since targeting is based on the currently logged on user.
   - Azure AD joined devices aren't currently supported, only AD joined devices.

#### Re-evaluate an application from the admin center

1. If needed, open the **Admin Center Preview**
   1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace and select the **Devices** node.
   1. Right-click on a device that's been uploaded to Microsoft Endpoint Manager.
   1. In the right-click menu, select **Start** > **Admin Center Preview** to open the preview in your browser.
1. Go to **Applications** in the admin center preview.
1. Select an application the client has already evaluated and click **Re-evaluate**.

#### Deploy an application to a user from the admin center

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace and select the **Users** node.
1. Right-click on a user.
1. In the right-click menu, select **Start** > **Admin Center Preview** to open the preview in your browser.
1. Go to **Applications** in the admin center preview.
1. Select the application and click **Install**.
