memdocs/configmgr/develop/osd/how-to-set-the-deletion-policy-for-a-state-migration-point.md, before:

---
title: "Set the Deletion Policy for a State Migration Point"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
ms.date: "09/20/2016"
ms.prod: "configuration-manager"
ms.technology: configmgr-sdk
ms.topic: how-to
ms.assetid: ffe6aa50-dd9c-4920-a694-fa05309f5863
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: null
ms.collection: openauth


---
# How to Set the Deletion Policy for a State Migration Point
In Configuration Manager, you configure the state migration point deletion policy by updating the **SMPStoreDeletionDelayTimeInMinutes** and **SMPStoreDeletionCycleTimeInMinutes** embedded properties. The deletion policy defines when the state migration point should remove data marked for deletion.  

> [!NOTE]
>  The Configuration Manager console displays the deletion delay time in days, whereas SMPStoreDeletionDelayTimeInMinutes and SMPStoreDeletionCycleTimeInMinutes are stored in minutes.  

### To set the deletion policy  

1.  Set up a connection to the SMS Provider. For more information, see [SMS Provider fundamentals](../core/understand/sms-provider-fundamentals.md).  

2.  Make a connection to the state migration point resources section of the site control file.  

3.  Get the embedded properties.  

4.  Update `SMPStoreDeletionDelayTimeInMinutes` and `SMPStoreDeletionCycleTimeInMinutes`.  

5.  Commit the changes to the site control file.  

## Example  
 The following example method sets the deletion policy for a state migration point. The example receives the number of days, converts the value to minutes, and updates the deletion policy accordingly.  

 For information about calling the sample code, see [Calling Configuration Manager Code Snippets](../../develop/core/understand/calling-code-snippets.md).  

```vbs  
Sub SetDeletionPolicy(connection,          _  
                      context,           _  
                      siteCode,               _  
                      deletionPolicyDays)  

    ' Load site control file and get SMS state migration point section.  
    connection.ExecMethod "SMS_SiteControlFile.Filetype=1,Sitecode=""" & siteCode & """", "Refresh", , , context  

    Query = "SELECT * FROM SMS_SCI_SysResUse " & _  
            "WHERE RoleName = 'SMS State Migration Point' " & _  
            "AND SiteCode = '" & siteCode & "'"  

    Set SCIComponentSet = connection.ExecQuery(Query, , , context)  

    ' Convert days to minutes (1440 = 24 *60).  
    deletionDelayMinutes = deletionPolicyDays * 1440  
    deletionCycleMinutes = 1440  

    ' Only one instance is returned from the query.  
    For Each SCIComponent In SCIComponentSet  

         ' Display state migration point server name.  
         wscript.echo "SMS State Migration Point Server: " & SCIComponent.NetworkOSPath                                      

        ' Loop through the array of embedded property instances.  
        For Each vProperty In SCIComponent.Props  

            ' Setting: SMPStoreDeletionDelayTimeInMinutes  
            If vProperty.PropertyName = "SMPStoreDeletionDelayTimeInMinutes" Then  
                wscript.echo " "  
                wscript.echo vProperty.PropertyName  
                wscript.echo "Current value " &  vProperty.Value                 

                ' Modify the value.  
                vProperty.Value = deletionDelayMinutes  
                wscript.echo "New value " & deletionDelayMinutes  
            End If  

           ' Setting: SMPStoreDeletionCycleTimeInMinutes  
           If vProperty.PropertyName = "SMPStoreDeletionCycleTimeInMinutes" Then  
                wscript.echo " "  
                wscript.echo vProperty.PropertyName  
                wscript.echo "Current value " &  vProperty.Value                 

                ' Modify the value.  
                vProperty.Value = deletionCycleMinutes  
                wscript.echo "New value " & deletionCycleMinutes  
            End If  

        Next     

             ' Update the component in your copy of the site control file. Get the path  
             ' to the updated object, which could be used later to retrieve the instance.  
             Set SCICompPath = SCIComponent.Put_( , context)  
    Next  

    ' Commit the change to the actual site control file.  
    Set InParams = connection.Get("SMS_SiteControlFile").Methods_("CommitSCF").InParameters.SpawnInstance_  
    InParams.SiteCode = siteCode  
    connection.ExecMethod "SMS_SiteControlFile", "CommitSCF", InParams, , context  

End Sub  
```  

```c#  

public void SetDeletionPolicy(  
WqlConnectionManager connection,  
string server,  
string siteCode,  
int deletionPolicyDays)  
{  
    try  
    {  
        // Get the state migration part of the site control file.  
        IResultObject ro = connection.GetInstance("SMS_SCI_SysResUse.FileType=2,ItemName='[\"Display=\\\\" +   
            server +   
            "\\\"]MSWNET:[\"SMS_SITE=" +  
            siteCode +   
            "\"]\\\\" +   
            server +   
            "\\,SMS State Migration Point',ItemType='System Resource Usage',SiteCode='" +   
            siteCode +   
            "'");  

        // Convert to minutes.  
        Dictionary<string, IResultObject> embeddedProperties = ro.EmbeddedProperties; // Get a copy  
        int deletionDelayMinutes = 0;  
        int deletionCycleMinutes = 0;  
        if (deletionPolicyDays > 0)  
        {  
            // Convert days to minutes (1440 = 24 *60).  
            deletionDelayMinutes = deletionPolicyDays * 1440;  
            deletionCycleMinutes = 1440;  
        }  
        // Update deletion policy.  
        embeddedProperties["SMPStoreDeletionDelayTimeInMinutes"]["Value"].IntegerValue = deletionDelayMinutes;  
        embeddedProperties["SMPStoreDeletionCycleTimeInMinutes"]["Value"].IntegerValue = deletionCycleMinutes;  

        ro.EmbeddedProperties = embeddedProperties;  

        // Commit changes.  
        ro.Put();  
    }  
    catch (SmsException e)  
    {  
        Console.WriteLine("Failed to set deletion policy: " + e.Message);  
        throw;  
    }  
}  

```  

 The example method has the following parameters:  

|Parameter|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`connection`|-   Managed: `WqlConnectionManager`<br />-   VBScript: [SWbemServices](/windows/win32/wmisdk/swbemservices)|A valid connection to the SMS Provider.|  
|`context (VBScript)`|-   VBScript: `SWbemContext`|A valid context object. For more information, see [How to Add a Configuration Manager Context Qualifier by Using WMI](../../develop/core/understand/how-to-add-a-configuration-manager-context-qualifier-by-using-wmi.md).|  
|`server`|-   Managed: `String`<br />-   VBScript: `String`|The Configuration Manager server that the state migration point is running on.|  
|`siteCode`|-   Managed: `String`<br />-   VBScript: `String`|The Configuration Manager site code.|  
|`deletionPolicyDays`|-   Managed: `Integer`<br />-   VBScript: `Integer`|Number of days before data deletion.|  

## Compiling the Code  
 The C# example has the following compilation requirements:  

### Namespaces  
 System  

 System.Collections.Generic  

 System.Text  

 Microsoft.ConfigurationManagement.ManagementProvider  

 Microsoft.ConfigurationManagement.ManagementProvider.WqlQueryEngine  

### Assembly  
 microsoft.configurationmanagement.managementprovider  

 adminui.wqlqueryengine  

## Robust Programming  
 For more information about error handling, see [About Configuration Manager Errors](../../develop/core/understand/about-configuration-manager-errors.md).  

## .NET Framework Security  
 For more information about securing Configuration Manager applications, see [Configuration Manager role-based administration](../../develop/core/servers/configure/role-based-administration.md) .  

## See Also  
 [About OS deployment site role configuration](about-operating-system-deployment-site-role-configuration.md)
 [How to Read and Write to the Configuration Manager Site Control File by Using Managed Code](../../develop/core/understand/how-to-read-and-write-to-the-site-control-file-by-using-managed-code.md)   
 [How to Read and Write to the Configuration Manager Site Control File by Using WMI](../../develop/core/understand/how-to-read-and-write-to-the-site-control-file-by-using-wmi.md)

Commit message:

[Bulk] validation: fix missing description issues3

memdocs/configmgr/develop/osd/how-to-set-the-deletion-policy-for-a-state-migration-point.md, after:

---
title: "Set the Deletion Policy for a State Migration Point"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
description: "In Configuration Manager, configure the state migration point deletion policy by updating the embedded properties of SMPStoreDeletionDelayTimeInMinutes and SMPStoreDeletionCycleTimeInMinutes." 
ms.date: "09/20/2016"
ms.prod: "configuration-manager"
ms.technology: configmgr-sdk
ms.topic: how-to
ms.assetid: ffe6aa50-dd9c-4920-a694-fa05309f5863
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: null
ms.collection: openauth


---
# How to Set the Deletion Policy for a State Migration Point
In Configuration Manager, you configure the state migration point deletion policy by updating the **SMPStoreDeletionDelayTimeInMinutes** and **SMPStoreDeletionCycleTimeInMinutes** embedded properties. The deletion policy defines when the state migration point should remove data marked for deletion.  

> [!NOTE]
>  The Configuration Manager console displays the deletion delay time in days, whereas SMPStoreDeletionDelayTimeInMinutes and SMPStoreDeletionCycleTimeInMinutes are stored in minutes.  

### To set the deletion policy  

1.  Set up a connection to the SMS Provider. For more information, see [SMS Provider fundamentals](../core/understand/sms-provider-fundamentals.md).  

2.  Make a connection to the state migration point resources section of the site control file.  

3.  Get the embedded properties.  

4.  Update `SMPStoreDeletionDelayTimeInMinutes` and `SMPStoreDeletionCycleTimeInMinutes`.  

5.  Commit the changes to the site control file.  

## Example  
 The following example method sets the deletion policy for a state migration point. The example receives the number of days, converts the value to minutes, and updates the deletion policy accordingly.  

 For information about calling the sample code, see [Calling Configuration Manager Code Snippets](../../develop/core/understand/calling-code-snippets.md).  

```vbs  
Sub SetDeletionPolicy(connection,          _  
                      context,           _  
                      siteCode,               _  
                      deletionPolicyDays)  

    ' Load site control file and get SMS state migration point section.  
    connection.ExecMethod "SMS_SiteControlFile.Filetype=1,Sitecode=""" & siteCode & """", "Refresh", , , context  

    Query = "SELECT * FROM SMS_SCI_SysResUse " & _  
            "WHERE RoleName = 'SMS State Migration Point' " & _  
            "AND SiteCode = '" & siteCode & "'"  

    Set SCIComponentSet = connection.ExecQuery(Query, , , context)  

    ' Convert days to minutes (1440 = 24 *60).  
    deletionDelayMinutes = deletionPolicyDays * 1440  
    deletionCycleMinutes = 1440  

    ' Only one instance is returned from the query.  
    For Each SCIComponent In SCIComponentSet  

         ' Display state migration point server name.  
         wscript.echo "SMS State Migration Point Server: " & SCIComponent.NetworkOSPath                                      

        ' Loop through the array of embedded property instances.  
        For Each vProperty In SCIComponent.Props  

            ' Setting: SMPStoreDeletionDelayTimeInMinutes  
            If vProperty.PropertyName = "SMPStoreDeletionDelayTimeInMinutes" Then  
                wscript.echo " "  
                wscript.echo vProperty.PropertyName  
                wscript.echo "Current value " &  vProperty.Value                 

                ' Modify the value.  
                vProperty.Value = deletionDelayMinutes  
                wscript.echo "New value " & deletionDelayMinutes  
            End If  

           ' Setting: SMPStoreDeletionCycleTimeInMinutes  
           If vProperty.PropertyName = "SMPStoreDeletionCycleTimeInMinutes" Then  
                wscript.echo " "  
                wscript.echo vProperty.PropertyName  
                wscript.echo "Current value " &  vProperty.Value                 

                ' Modify the value.  
                vProperty.Value = deletionCycleMinutes  
                wscript.echo "New value " & deletionCycleMinutes  
            End If  

        Next     

             ' Update the component in your copy of the site control file. Get the path  
             ' to the updated object, which could be used later to retrieve the instance.  
             Set SCICompPath = SCIComponent.Put_( , context)  
    Next  

    ' Commit the change to the actual site control file.  
    Set InParams = connection.Get("SMS_SiteControlFile").Methods_("CommitSCF").InParameters.SpawnInstance_  
    InParams.SiteCode = siteCode  
    connection.ExecMethod "SMS_SiteControlFile", "CommitSCF", InParams, , context  

End Sub  
```  

```c#  

public void SetDeletionPolicy(  
WqlConnectionManager connection,  
string server,  
string siteCode,  
int deletionPolicyDays)  
{  
    try  
    {  
        // Get the state migration part of the site control file.  
        IResultObject ro = connection.GetInstance("SMS_SCI_SysResUse.FileType=2,ItemName='[\"Display=\\\\" +   
            server +   
            "\\\"]MSWNET:[\"SMS_SITE=" +  
            siteCode +   
            "\"]\\\\" +   
            server +   
            "\\,SMS State Migration Point',ItemType='System Resource Usage',SiteCode='" +   
            siteCode +   
            "'");  

        // Convert to minutes.  
        Dictionary<string, IResultObject> embeddedProperties = ro.EmbeddedProperties; // Get a copy  
        int deletionDelayMinutes = 0;  
        int deletionCycleMinutes = 0;  
        if (deletionPolicyDays > 0)  
        {  
            // Convert days to minutes (1440 = 24 *60).  
            deletionDelayMinutes = deletionPolicyDays * 1440;  
            deletionCycleMinutes = 1440;  
        }  
        // Update deletion policy.  
        embeddedProperties["SMPStoreDeletionDelayTimeInMinutes"]["Value"].IntegerValue = deletionDelayMinutes;  
        embeddedProperties["SMPStoreDeletionCycleTimeInMinutes"]["Value"].IntegerValue = deletionCycleMinutes;  

        ro.EmbeddedProperties = embeddedProperties;  

        // Commit changes.  
        ro.Put();  
    }  
    catch (SmsException e)  
    {  
        Console.WriteLine("Failed to set deletion policy: " + e.Message);  
        throw;  
    }  
}  

```  

 The example method has the following parameters:  

|Parameter|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`connection`|-   Managed: `WqlConnectionManager`<br />-   VBScript: [SWbemServices](/windows/win32/wmisdk/swbemservices)|A valid connection to the SMS Provider.|  
|`context (VBScript)`|-   VBScript: `SWbemContext`|A valid context object. For more information, see [How to Add a Configuration Manager Context Qualifier by Using WMI](../../develop/core/understand/how-to-add-a-configuration-manager-context-qualifier-by-using-wmi.md).|  
|`server`|-   Managed: `String`<br />-   VBScript: `String`|The Configuration Manager server that the state migration point is running on.|  
|`siteCode`|-   Managed: `String`<br />-   VBScript: `String`|The Configuration Manager site code.|  
|`deletionPolicyDays`|-   Managed: `Integer`<br />-   VBScript: `Integer`|Number of days before data deletion.|  

## Compiling the Code  
 The C# example has the following compilation requirements:  

### Namespaces  
 System  

 System.Collections.Generic  

 System.Text  

 Microsoft.ConfigurationManagement.ManagementProvider  

 Microsoft.ConfigurationManagement.ManagementProvider.WqlQueryEngine  

### Assembly  
 microsoft.configurationmanagement.managementprovider  

 adminui.wqlqueryengine  

## Robust Programming  
 For more information about error handling, see [About Configuration Manager Errors](../../develop/core/understand/about-configuration-manager-errors.md).  

## .NET Framework Security  
 For more information about securing Configuration Manager applications, see [Configuration Manager role-based administration](../../develop/core/servers/configure/role-based-administration.md) .  

## See Also  
 [About OS deployment site role configuration](about-operating-system-deployment-site-role-configuration.md)
 [How to Read and Write to the Configuration Manager Site Control File by Using Managed Code](../../develop/core/understand/how-to-read-and-write-to-the-site-control-file-by-using-managed-code.md)   
 [How to Read and Write to the Configuration Manager Site Control File by Using WMI](../../develop/core/understand/how-to-read-and-write-to-the-site-control-file-by-using-wmi.md)
