---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 09/14/2010
---

## <a name="bkmk_coll"></a> View collection relationships

<!--3608121-->

Based on your feedback, you can now view dependency relationships between collections in a graphical format. It shows limiting, include, and exclude relationships.

:::image type="content" source="../../media/3608121-view-dependent-relationships.png" alt-text="View collection dependency relationships in a graphical format" lightbox="../../media/3608121-view-dependent-relationships.png":::

If you want to change or delete collections, view the relationships to understand the impact of the proposed change. Before you create a deployment, look at the potential target collection for any include or exclude relationships that might affect the deployment.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace, and select the **Device Collections** node.

1. Select a collection, and then in the ribbon, select **View Relationships**. On the main page:

    - To view the relationships with parent collections, select **Dependency**.

    - To view the relationships with child collections, select **Dependent**.

    For example, if you select the **All Systems** collection to view its relationships, the **Dependency** node will be **0** as it has no parent collections.

Use the following tips to navigate the relationship viewer:

- Select the plus (`+`) or minus (`-`) icons next to the collection name to expand or collapse members of a node.

- The number in parentheses after the collection name is the number of relationships. If the number is **0**, then that collection is the final or leaf node in that relationship tree.

- The style and color of the line between the collections determines the type of relationship:

    :::image type="content" source="../../media/3608121-collection-relationship-legend.png" alt-text="Collection dependency relationship line style legend":::

    If you hover over a specific line, a tooltip shows the relationship type.

- When the width of the tree is larger than the window, use the green arrows to the right or the left to view more.

- When a node of the relationship tree is larger than the available space, select **More** to change the view to just that node.

- To navigate to a prior view, select the **Back** arrow in the upper right corner. Select the **Home** icon to return to the main page.

- Use the **Search** box in the upper right corner to locate a collection in the current tree view.

- Use the **Navigator** in the lower right corner to zoom and pan around the tree. You can also print the current view.
