---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 09/14/2010
---

## <a name="bkmk_wol"></a> Wake machine at deployment deadline using peer clients on the same remote subnet
<!--3734819-->

Wake on LAN (WoL) has always posed a problem in complex, subnetted networks. Good networking best practice reduces the size of broadcast domains to mitigate against the risk of broadcast traffic adversely affecting the network. The most common way to limiting network broadcast is by not allowing broadcast packets to be routed between subnets. Another option is to enable subnet directed broadcasts but most organizations don't allow the magic packet to traverse internal routers.

In version 1810, the introduction of [peer wake up](../../../../clients/deploy/configure-wake-on-lan.md#bkmk_wol-1810) allowed an administrator to wake a device or collection of devices, on demand using the client notification channel. Overcoming the need for the server to be in the same broadcast domain as the client.

This latest improvement allows the Configuration Manager site to wake devices at the deadline of a deployment, using that same client notification channel. Instead of the site server issuing the magic packet directly, the site uses the client notification channel to find an online machine in the last known subnet of the target device(s) and instructs the online client to issue the WoL packet for the target device.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. At the site level, enable [Wake on LAN](../../../../clients/deploy/configure-wake-on-lan.md).
   1. Go to **Administration > Site Configuration > Sites**.
   1. Right-click on the site and select **Properties**.
   1. On the **Wake on LAN** tab, select **Enable Wake on LAN for this site**.
1. Verify **Allow network wake-up** under the [**Power Management** client settings](../../../../clients/deploy/about-client-settings.md#power-management) is enabled.
1. Deploy an application as **Required** with the **Send wake-up packages** option and a **Deadline**.

    :::image type="content" source="../../media/3734819-wol-deployment.png" alt-text="Send wake-up packets option in the deployment wizard" lightbox="../../media/3734819-wol-deployment.png":::
