---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 09/14/2010
---

## <a name="bkmk_remctrl"></a> Improvements to remote control

<!--4575930-->

This release continues to improve the functionality of remote control as first introduced in technical preview version 1906. You can now connect to any Configuration Manager client with an online status.

The following prerequisites now apply:

- In the **Remote Tools** group of client settings:

  - Enable remote control

  - Add the user as a permitted viewer for remote control.

  For more information, see [About client settings - Remote Tools](../../../../clients/deploy/about-client-settings.md#remote-tools).

- Configuration Manager client requirements:

  - Update the client to the latest version.

  - The client status needs to be online.

  - If the client is internet-based, use a [cloud management gateway (CMG)](../../../../clients/manage/cmg/overview.md).

    > [!IMPORTANT]
    > This feature was removed in Configuration Manager technical preview branch version 2112. For more information, see [A new remote assistance tool](../../../2021/technical-preview-2112.md#bkmk_cmgrc).

  > [!NOTE]
  > Remote control now supports all available client authentication methods. For example, internet-based clients might authenticate using one of the following methods:
  >
  > - A valid PKI [client certificate](../../../../clients/manage/cmg/configure-authentication.md#pki-certificate)
  > - [Azure Active Directory (Azure AD)](../../../../clients/deploy/deploy-clients-cmg-azure.md)
  > - [Token-based authentication](../../../../clients/deploy/deploy-clients-cmg-token.md)
  >
  > These requirements aren't unique to remote control. If you properly configure clients to communicate with a CMG, HTTPS management points, or sites with enhanced HTTP, then they already use a supported authentication method.

For more information on how to use remote control, see [the instructions from version 1906](../../../2019/technical-preview-1906.md#connect-to-a-client-from-the-console).

1. When you start a remote control session, select the option to **Connect via CMG or HTTPS MP** for any of the following scenarios:

    - CMG
    - HTTPS management point
    - Enhanced HTTP site

    :::image type="content" source="../../media/4575930-remote-control-address-connection.png" alt-text="Remote Control Address Connection window with CMG selection":::

1. Enter the fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of the applicable service. For example:

    - CMG: `granitefalls.cloudapp.net`
    - HTTPS management point: `mp1.contoso.com`

If you specify a CMG, the permitted viewer and the target client device need a connection to the internet. This connection is required even if they're on the internal network.
