---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 02/07/2019
---

## <a name="bkmk_odfb"></a> Redirect Windows known folders to OneDrive
<!--3556021-->

Use Configuration Manager to move Windows known folders to OneDrive for Business. These folders include Desktop, Documents, and Pictures. To simplify your Windows 10 upgrades, deploy these settings to Windows 7 clients before deploying a task sequence. 


### Prerequisites

- [Find your Office 365 tenant ID](https://docs.microsoft.com/onedrive/find-your-office-365-tenant-id)


### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](/sccm/core/understand/find-help#product-feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace, expand **Compliance Settings**, and select the **OneDrive for Business** node.  

2. In the ribbon, select **Create policy**.  

3. Specify a name to identify this compliance policy, and select **Next**.  

4. On the **Settings** page:

    1. Specify your Office 365 tenant ID.  

    2. Select one of the following options to move the known folders to OneDrive:  

        - **Prompt users to move Windows known folders to OneDrive**: With this notification, the user sees a wizard to move their files. If they choose to postpone or decline moving their folders, OneDrive periodically reminds them.  

        - **Silently move Windows known folders to OneDrive**: When this policy applies to the device, the OneDrive client automatically redirects the known folders to OneDrive for Business.  

            - **Show notification to users after folders have been redirected**: If you enable this option, the OneDrive client lets the user know after their folders are moved.  

    3. **Prevent users from redirecting their Windows known folders back to their PC**: Don't give users the option to change this configuration.  

5. Complete the wizard, then deploy the policy.  

