---
# required metadata

title: Configuration policies for Intune App SDK managed apps
titleSuffix: Microsoft Intune
description: Learn how to configure policies for Intune App SDK managed apps.
keywords:
author: Erikre
ms.author: erikre
manager: dougeby
ms.date: 01/28/2022
ms.topic: how-to
ms.service: microsoft-intune
ms.subservice: apps
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.technology:
ms.assetid: E61C1618-79D0-41A1-B61F-4123FB6672FC

# optional metadata 

#ROBOTS:
#audience:

ms.reviewer: manchen
ms.suite: ems
search.appverid: MET150
#ms.tgt_pltfrm:
ms.custom: intune-azure
ms.collection:
- tier2
- M365-identity-device-management
---

# App configuration policies for Intune App SDK managed apps

[!INCLUDE [azure_portal](../includes/azure_portal.md)]

The Intune App Software Development Kit (SDK) supports app configuration delivery through the mobile app management (MAM) channel. Within the Intune admin center, the MAM channel is referred to as a Managed Apps app configuration policy. The MAM channel is different than the mobile device management (MDM) OS platform channels that are offered when a device is enrolled.

To support app configuration through the MAM channel, the app must be integrated with [Intune App SDK](../developer/app-sdk.md). Line-of-business apps can either integrate the Intune App SDK or use the [Intune App Wrapping Tool](../developer/apps-prepare-mobile-application-management.md). For a comparison between the Intune App SDK and the Intune App Wrapping Tool, see [Prepare line-of-business apps for app protection policies](../developer/apps-prepare-mobile-application-management.md#feature-comparison).

By using the MAM channel, apps can receive app configuration policies regardless of the device enrollment state. For information on which apps support app configuration through the MAM channel, see [Microsoft Intune protected apps](apps-supported-intune-apps.md). Documentation from the app vendor should be reviewed to see what configurations are available and how the configurations influence the behavior of the app.

For more information, see [App configuration policies for Microsoft Intune](app-configuration-policies-overview.md).

[!INCLUDE [android-supported-os](../includes/android-supported-os.md)]

## Add a Managed apps app configuration policy

Use the following steps to create a Managed apps app configuration policy. After the configuration is created, you can assign its settings to groups of users.

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).
2. Choose the **Apps** > **App configuration policies** > **Add** > **Managed apps**.
3. On the **Basics** page, set the following details:
    - **Name**: The name of the profile that will appear in the portal.
    - **Description**: The  description of the profile that will appear in the portal.
    - **Device enrollment type**: Managed apps is selected.
4. Choose either **Select public apps** or **Select custom apps** to choose the app that you are going to configure. Select the app from the list of apps that you've approved and synchronized with Intune.
5. Click **Next** to display the **Settings** page.
6. The **Settings page** provides options that are displayed based on the app that you're configuring:

    - **General configuration settings** - For each general configuration setting that the app supports, type the **Name** and **Value**.

        Intune App SDK-enabled apps support configurations in key/value pairs. To learn more about which key-value configurations are supported, consult the documentation for each app. Note that you can use tokens that will be dynamically populated with data generated by the application. To delete a general configuration setting, choose the ellipsis (**…**) and select **Delete**. For more information, see [Configuration values for using tokens](app-configuration-policies-managed-app.md#configuration-values-for-using-tokens).

    For information about app configuration settings for specific Microsoft apps, see:

    - [Manage Microsoft Edge on iOS and Android with Intune](manage-microsoft-edge.md)
    - [Manage collaboration experiences in Office for iOS and Android with Microsoft Intune](manage-microsoft-office.md)
    - [Deploying Outlook for iOS and Android app configuration settings](/exchange/clients-and-mobile-in-exchange-online/outlook-for-ios-and-android/outlook-for-ios-and-android-configuration-with-microsoft-intune)
    - [Manage collaboration experiences in Teams for iOS and Android with Microsoft Intune](manage-microsoft-teams.md)

7. Click **Next** to display the **Assignments** page.
8. Click **Select groups to include**.
9. Select a group in the **Select groups to include** pane and click **Select**.
10. Click **Select groups to exclude** to display the related pane.
11. Choose the groups you want to exclude and then click **Select**.

    >[!NOTE]
    >When adding a group, if any other group has already been included for a given assignment type, it is pre-selected and unchangeable for other include assignment types. Therefore, that group that has been used, cannot be used as an excluded group.

12. Click **Next** to display the **Review + create** page.
13. Click **Create** to add the app configuration policy to Intune.

## Configuration values for using tokens

Intune can generate certain tokens and send them to the managed application. For example, if your app configuration can use an email setting, you can add a dynamic email by using a token. Type the name expected by the app in the **Name** field, and then type `{{mail}}` in the **Value** field.

Intune supports the following token types in the configuration settings. Other custom key/value pairs aren't supported.

- \{\{userprincipalname\}\}—for example, John@contoso.com
- \{\{mail\}\}—for example, John@contoso.com
- \{\{partialupn\}\}—for example, John
- \{\{accountid\}\}—for example, fc0dc142-71d8-4b12-bbea-bae2a8514c81
- \{\{userid\}\}—for example, 3ec2c00f-b125-4519-acf0-302ac3761822
- \{\{username\}\}—for example, John Doe
- \{\{PrimarySMTPAddress\}\}—for example, testuser@ad.domain.com

> [!Note]  
> The \{\{ and \}\} characters are used by token types only and must not be used for other purposes.

## Next steps

Continue to [assign](apps-deploy.md) and [monitor](apps-monitor.md) the app as usual.