---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 02/19/2021
---

## <a name="bkmk_reports"></a> Add a report as a favorite

<!--8034298-->

Configuration Manager ships with several hundred reports by default, and you may have added more to that list. Instead of continually searching for reports you commonly use, based on your feedback, you can now make a report a favorite. This action allows you to quickly access it from the new **Favorites** node.

The list of favorites is per user, not per site or hierarchy.

### Prerequisites for report favorites

The version of SQL Server Reporting Services on the site's reporting service point needs to be SQL Server 2017 or later.

> [!NOTE]
> All instances of SQL Server Reporting Services on the server need to be version 2017 or later.<!-- 9413706 -->

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](/configmgr/core/understand/find-help#product-feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Monitoring** workspace. Expand the **Reporting** node, and select either the **Reports** or **Power BI Reports** node.

1. Select a report that you frequently use. Then in the ribbon, select **Add to Favorites**. The report's icon changes to a yellow star, which indicates that it's a favorite.

    > [!TIP]
    > You can select more than one report to add them all as favorites.

    To remove a report from the list of favorites, select it, and then select **Remove from Favorites**. When you remove a favorite, Configuration Manager doesn't delete the report.

1. Under the **Reporting** node, expand the new **Favorites** node. To view your list of favorites, select either the **Reports** or **Power BI Reports** node.

    > [!TIP]
    > You can directly connect to your favorite reports in your browser. For example, `https://rsp.contoso.com/Reports/favorites`.

    You can manage the reports the same from the list of favorites.
