---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 02/19/2021
---

## <a name="bkmk_coll"></a> Improvements to the collection relationships viewer

<!--8543508-->

Starting in current branch version 2010, you can view [dependency relationships between collections](../../../../clients/manage/collections/view-relationships.md) in a graphical format. The relationships for a collection were presented as two hierarchical trees, one for dependents and the other for dependencies. In this release, you can view both dependency and dependent relationships together in a single graph. This change allows you to quickly see an overview of all the relationships of a collection at once and then drill down into specific related collections. It also includes other filtering and navigation improvements.

The following example shows the relationships for the "c1" collection in the center. It's dependent upon the collections above it, and has dependencies below it.

:::image type="content" source="../../media/8543508-view-collection-relationships.png" alt-text="Example graph of collection relationships" lightbox="../../media/8543508-view-collection-relationships.png":::

To see the relationships of another collection in the graph, select it to open a new window targeted on that collection.

Other improvements:

- There's a new **Filter** button in the upper right corner. This action lets you reduce the graph to specific relationship types: **Limiting**, **Include**, or **Exclude**.

- If you don't have permissions to all related collections, the graph includes a warning message that the graph may be incomplete.

- When the graph is wider than the window can display, use the page navigation controls in the upper left corner. The first number is the page for  dependencies (below), the second number is the page for dependents (above). The window title also shows the page numbers.

- The tooltip for a collection displays the count of dependencies it has and the count of dependant collections where applicable. This count only includes unique sub-collections. The count no longer displays in the parentheses next to the collection name.

- Previously the **Back** button took you through your viewing history. Now it takes you to the previously selected collection. For example, changing pages for the current collection doesn't activate the **Back** button. When you select a new collection, you can select **Back** to return to the original collection graph.
