---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 02/19/2021
---

## <a name="bkmk_colleval"></a> Improvements to collection evaluation view
<!--8787410-->
The following improvements were made to the collection evaluation view:
- The central administration site (CAS) now displays a summary of collection evaluation status for all the primary sites in the hierarchy
- Drill through from collection evaluation status queue to a collection
- Copy text to the clipboard from the collection evaluation page
- Configure the refresh interval for the collection evaluation statistics page

### <a name="bkmk_cas"></a> Collection evaluation information at the CAS

Since collection evaluation happens at the primary site level, the collection evaluation view on the CAS is a summary of what's occurring on the primary sites.

There are two new tabs in the details pane of the collection view in the console. The following new tabs show collection evaluation information from all primary sites in hierarchy:

- **Evaluation (Full) In Hierarchy**
- **Evaluation (Incremental) In Hierarchy**

:::image type="content" source="../../media/8787410-collection-evaluation-details-tab.png" alt-text="Collection evaluation tabs in the collection's details pane at the CAS" lightbox="../../media/8787410-collection-evaluation-details-tab.png":::

From the **Device Collections** node at the CAS, the evaluation columns display the evaluation status from the primary site with the longest run time. The column information at the CAS for the full evaluation status could be from a different primary site than the incremental information since the longest runtime for the incremental might have occurred at a different primary.

 For instance, incremental evaluation for the `All Systems` collection on the  `WMII` primary site takes longer than the other primary sites. The full evaluation columns on the CAS display the information from primary site `WMI` for the `All Systems` collection in the **Device Collections** node.

:::image type="content" source="../../media/8787410-cas-collection-evaluation-columns.png" alt-text="Collection evaluation columns at the CAS with the details tab open displaying the evaluation from all primary sites" lightbox="../../media/8787410-cas-collection-evaluation-columns.png":::

### Drill through from collection evaluation queue or status view to a collection

You can now navigate to a collection in the **Assets and Compliance** workspace from a collection evaluation status view or evaluation queue in the **Monitoring** workspace. Select a collection from one of the status views or queues, then choose **View collection** from the ribbon or right-click menu to open the collection.

Navigation to the collection from queues won't occur if the collection evaluation has completed. You can only drill though from an item in a queue that's still currently running its evaluation. If the evaluation has already completed, the **View collection** action takes you to the main collection view. Drill though from the evaluation status views, **Full Evaluation Status** and **Incremental Evaluation Status**, will always take you to the collection.

:::image type="content" source="../../media/8787410-view-collection.png" alt-text="View collection option in the ribbon of the Full Evaluation Status node" lightbox="../../media/8787410-view-collection.png":::

### Configure refresh interval for the collection evaluation statistics page

You can configure a primary site's refresh interval for the **Collection Evaluation** statistics page to be between 1 minute and 1440 minutes (1 day). Typically, collection evaluation occurs over the course of seconds or minutes. However, you can change the statistics refresh to accommodate your environment. The default refresh interval is 5 minutes.

:::image type="content" source="../../media/8787410-refresh-interval.png" alt-text="Refresh interval for the evaluation statistics on the primary site" lightbox="../../media/8787410-refresh-interval.png":::

### Copy text to clipboard from collection evaluation statistics page

You can copy collection evaluation statistics as structured text to the clipboard. Use the **Copy** button in the ribbon to copy the statistics. When the text is pasted into a text editor, it's structured to make it easy to read.

:::image type="content" source="../../media/8787410-copy-statistics.png" alt-text="Copy button in the ribbon for collection evaluation statistics with Notepad open to show the structured text that's copied" lightbox="../../media/8787410-copy-statistics.png":::

### Full and incremental evaluation status nodes

The **Full Evaluation Status** and **Incremental Evaluation Status** subnodes have been readded to the **Collection Evaluation** node in the **Monitoring** workspace. 

- On a primary site, **Full Evaluation Status** and **Incremental Evaluation Status** show the data for the local evaluations.

- On a CAS, **Full Evaluation Status** and **Incremental Evaluation Status** shows the data from the primary site with the longest run time. 
  - Using the longest runtime for these nodes is the same logic that's used for the [collection evaluation columns at the CAS](#bkmk_cas).

:::image type="content" source="../../media/8787410-full-evaluation-status-node-cas.png" alt-text="Full Evaluation Status node at the CAS " lightbox="../../media/8787410-full-evaluation-status-node-cas.png":::
