---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 01/29/2021
---

## <a name="bkmk_futs"></a> Deploy a feature update with a task sequence

<!--3555906-->

Based on your feedback, you can now upgrade a client's Windows OS by using a feature update deployed with a task sequence. This integration combines the simplicity of Windows servicing with the flexibility of task sequences. Servicing uses a single ESD file that you synchronize through the software update point. This process simplifies the need to manually get, import, and maintain the Windows image content used with a standard task sequence to upgrade Windows. The size of the ESD file is generally smaller than the WIM image file.

The user experience is the same as with a task sequence.

### Prerequisites for a feature update in a task sequence

- Synchronize the software update point to include the **Upgrades** classification. For more information, see [Configure classifications and products](../../../../../sum/get-started/configure-classifications-and-products.md).

- For a deployment package that contains the feature update, distribute it to a distribution point that the client can access. For more information, see [Download software updates](../../../../../sum/deploy-use/download-software-updates.md).

- Review the configuration of the following client settings in the [Software Updates](../../../../clients/deploy/about-client-settings.md#software-updates) group, which are applicable to this scenario:

  - **Specify thread priority for feature updates**: In most instances, set this value to **Normal**.

  - **Enable Dynamic Update for feature updates**: Use this setting to use dynamic update to install language packs, features on demand, drivers, and cumulative updates during Windows Setup. Clients download these other updates from the internet.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](/configmgr/core/understand/find-help#product-feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. [Create a task sequence to upgrade an OS](../../../../../osd/deploy-use/create-a-task-sequence-to-upgrade-an-operating-system.md).

1. Edit the task sequence and select the **Upgrade Operating System** step.

1. Select the option to **Install the following feature updates**.

1. Select the new button (gold asterisk), and add a feature update.

    > [!NOTE]
    > You can only add feature updates.
    >
    > If your environment supports multiple languages or architectures, add multiple updates to the step. The client uses the first applicable update.

1. Select **OK** to save the task sequence and close the editor.

1. [Deploy the task sequence](../../../../../osd/deploy-use/deploy-a-task-sequence.md).

To troubleshoot this process, besides **smsts.log** for the overall task sequence, use the following software update logs:

- WUAHandler.log
- UpdateHandler.log
- UpdateDeployment.log
