---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 01/29/2021
---
## <a name="bkmk_extensions"></a> Console extension installation
<!--3555909-->
You can now download console extensions from the [Community hub](../../../../servers/manage/community-hub.md) and have it applied to all consoles connected to a hierarchy. This improvement allows you to start managing the approval and installation of console extensions used in your environment. In this technical preview, only [Right Click Tools (Community Edition) from Recast Software](https://www.recastsoftware.com/enterprise?utm_source=microsoft&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=commhub) is available for download and installation. This version of the Right Click Tools extension isn't a final production version. This extension is for technical preview environments only and will expire on April 1, 2021.

### About the Console Extensions node

A new node has been added to the Configuration Manager console. The **Console Extensions** node is located under **Administration** > **Overview** > **Updates and Servicing**. Console extensions downloaded from the community hub will be located here. Actions for console extensions are grouped in the ribbon and the right-click menu.


:::image type="content" source="../../media/3555909-console-extensions-node.png" alt-text="The Console Extensions node in the Configuration Manager console" lightbox="../../media/3555909-console-extensions-node.png":::

**Actions for All Sites** group:
- **Approve Installation**: Approves the console extension for installation across all sites. An extension must be approved before notifications are enabled.
- **Revoke Approval**:
   - Revokes the ability to install the extension from the **Console Extensions** node.
   - Notifies then uninstalls existing instances of the extension across the hierarchy at the next launch of a locally installed console.
   - Allows for reapproval of the extension at a later date.
- **Enable Notifications**: Upon next launch of the console, notifies users within the security scope that the extension can be installed.
- **Disable Notifications**: Disables the console notification messages for the extension. Users within the security scope can still install approved extensions from the **Console Extensions** node.  
- **Delete**:
   - Revokes the ability to install the extension from the **Console Extensions** node.
   - Notifies then uninstalls existing instances of the extension across the hierarchy at the next launch of a locally installed console.
   - Removes the extension from the **Console Extensions** node so it can't be reapproved later.

**Classify** group:

- **Set Security Scopes**: Set the [security scopes](../../../../understand/fundamentals-of-role-based-administration.md#security-scopes) to secure the object and limit access.

**Local Extension** group:

- **Install**: Installs the selected extension for the current local console
- **Uninstall**: Uninstalls the selected extension from the current local console

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. Using the community hub, download the Right Click Tools extension from Recast Software.

   1. From the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Community hub** node in the **Community** workspace.
   1. Find Recast Software's Right Click Tools extension under the **Recently Updated** section on the **Home** page or search for it in the **All objects** page.
   
      :::image type="content" source="../../media/3555909-recast-extension.png" alt-text="Recast Software's Right Click Tools extension in the community hub":::
   1. Select the Right Click Tools extension and choose **Download**.

1. Change the [security scope](../../../../understand/fundamentals-of-role-based-administration.md#security-scopes) for the extension. Changing the security scope is recommended for initial testing of an extension.
   1. Go to the **Console Extensions** node under **Administration** > **Overview** > **Updates and Servicing**.
   1. Select the extension, then select **Set Security Scopes** from the ribbon.
   1. Remove the **Default** security scope and add a scope that only contains one or two admins for initial testing.
   1. Choose **OK** to save the security scope for the extension.

1. Approve the Right Click Tools extension by selecting **Approve Installation** from the ribbon or right-click menu.
   - If the extension isn't approved, you won't be able to install it or enable in-console notifications for it.
   - If you restart your console at this point, a notification about the available extension won't occur since you haven't enabled the option yet.
1. Install the extension on the local console by choosing **Install**.
1. Once the extension is installed, verify it displays and you can use it from the local console's **Assets and Compliance** workspace.
   :::image type="content" source="../../media/3555909-verify-extension.png" alt-text="Right Click Tools extension in the Configuration Manager console" lightbox="../../media/3555909-verify-extension.png":::

1. Modify the security scopes for the extension to allow access by more admins. These admins will be targeted with the in-console notification for installing the extension.
1. Select **Enable Notifications**.
1. Launch a Configuration Manager console that doesn't have the extension installed. Ideally, use an account that you just gave access to when you modified the security scope.
1. Verify that the notification for the extension occurs and that you can install the extension.

