---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 01/29/2021
---
## <a name="bkmk_apps"></a> Tenant Attach: Required application deployments display in Microsoft Intune admin center
<!--8795301-->
Applications targeted to a device or a user with a required deadline will now show in the **Applications** view for a tenant attached device in Microsoft Intune admin center. This improvement allows you to review when application installations are expected to occur on a device. The **An administrator must approve a request for this application on the device** option is no longer required to be set on the device available deployment for applications to be listed in the admin center.

:::image type="content" source="../../media/8795301-display-required-app.png" alt-text="Details about required deadlines for applications in Microsoft Intune admin center":::

We recommend using the **An administrator must approve a request for this application on the device** on application deployments when you have a large number of device available applications. By using this option, it defers targeting a new policy to the client until installation is initiated by the admin. By not targeting a large number of application policies to the client, it increases the performance of the site servers and the client. Use the following table to determine installation behavior on the device when you install an app from the admin center:

|Deployment options|Client requires policy sync before installation|Client must be online to queue the installation|
|--|--|--|
|Device required| Yes| Yes|
|Device available| Yes|Yes|
|Device requires approval|No |No </br> The installation will occur when the client next comes online |
|User required|Yes|Yes|
User available|No|No </br> The installation will occur when the client next comes online|
|User requires approval| No|No </br> The installation will occur when the client next comes online|
### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).
1. From **Devices** > **All devices**, choose a device managed by **ConfigMgr**.
1. Select **Applications (preview)** then select an application that has a **Status** of **Required**.
1. Review the details of the schedule for the installation of the application.
