---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 01/22/2019
---

## <a name="bkmk_resetbase"></a> Optimized image servicing
<!--3555951-->

When you apply software updates to an OS image, there's a new option to optimize the output by removing any superseded updates. The optimization to offline servicing only applies to images with a single index. This feature is based on your [UserVoice feedback](https://configurationmanager.uservoice.com/forums/300492-ideas/suggestions/34230259-integrate-resetbase-and-wim-optimization-exportin). 

When you schedule the site to apply software updates to an OS image, it uses the Windows Deployment Image Servicing and Management (DISM) command-line tool. During the servicing process, this change introduces the following two additional steps:  

- Run DISM against the mounted offline image with the parameters `/Cleanup-Image /StartComponentCleanup /ResetBase`. If this command fails, the current servicing process fails. It doesn't commit any changes to the image.  

-  After Configuration Manager commits changes to the image and unmounts it from the file system, it exports the image to another file. This step uses the DISM parameter `/Export-Image`. It removes unneeded files from the image, which reduces the size.  

Microsoft recommends that you regularly apply updates to your offline images. You don't have to use this option every time you service an image. When you do this process each month, this new option provides you the greatest advantage by using it over time. 

While this option helps reduce the overall size of the serviced image, it does take longer to complete the process. Use the wizard to schedule servicing during convenient times. It also requires additional storage on the site server. You can customize the site to use location an alternate location. For more information, see [Specify the drive for offline OS image servicing](/sccm/osd/get-started/manage-operating-system-images#bkmk_servicing-drive). 

For more general information about offline servicing, see [Apply software updates to an image](/sccm/osd/get-started/manage-operating-system-images#BKMK_OSImagesApplyUpdates). 


### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](/sccm/core/understand/find-help#product-feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. Start the [servicing process](/sccm/osd/get-started/manage-operating-system-images#servicing-process).  

2. On the **Set Schedule** page, select the option to **Remove superseded updates after the image is updated**. This option isn't automatically enabled. If the image has more than one index, you can't use this option.  

3. To schedule image servicing, complete the wizard.  

Validate and monitor the process using the OfflineServicing.log. 

