---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 01/22/2019
---

## <a name="bkmk_dpmaint"></a> Distribution point maintenance mode 
<!--3555754-->

You can now set a distribution point in maintenance mode. Enable maintenance mode when you're installing software updates, or making hardware changes to the server.

While the distribution point is in maintenance mode, it has the following behaviors: 

- The site doesn't distribute any content to it.  

- Management points don't return the location of this distribution point to clients. 

- When you update the site, a distribution point in maintenance mode still updates. 

- The distribution point properties are read-only. For example, you can't change the certificate or add boundary groups.  

- Any scheduled task, like content validation, still runs on the same schedule. 

Be careful about enabling maintenance mode on more than one distribution point. This action may cause a performance impact to your other distribution points. Depending upon your boundary group configurations, clients may have increased download times or be unable to download content. 


### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](/sccm/core/understand/find-help#product-feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Administration** workspace.  

2. Select the **Distribution Points** node.  

3. Select the target distribution point, and choose **Enable maintenance mode** from the ribbon.  

To view the current state of the distribution points, add the "Maintenance mode" column to the **Distribution Points** node in the console. 


### Automation

You can use the **SetDPMaintenanceMode** WMI method in the **SMS_DistributionPointInfo** class to automate this action. 

For more information, see [SMS_DistributionPointInfo Server WMI Class](/sccm/develop/reference/core/servers/configure/sms_distributionpointinfo-server-wmi-class). 

#### Syntax
```
uint32 SetDPMaintenanceMode(
    [in] string NALPath, 
    [in] uint32 Mode
);
```

#### Parameters  
- `NALPath`  
    - Data type: `String`  
    - Qualifiers: `[in]`  
    - Description: Source distribution point NAL path.  

- `Mode`  
    - Data type: `uint32` 
    - Qualifiers: `[in]`  
    - Description: `1` to enable maintenance mode, `0` to disable  

#### Return values  
An `uint32` data type that's `0` indicates success. A non-zero hresult indicates failure.  

For more information about handling returned errors, see [About Configuration Manager Errors](/sccm/develop/core/understand/about-configuration-manager-errors).  


