---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 01/22/2019
---

## <a name="bkmk_cmg"></a> Stop cloud service when it exceeds threshold
<!--3735092-->

Configuration Manager can now stop a cloud management gateway (CMG) service when the total data transfer goes over your limit. The CMG has always had [alerts](/sccm/core/clients/manage/cmg/monitor-clients-cloud-management-gateway#set-up-outbound-traffic-alerts), to trigger notifications when the usage reached warning or critical levels. To help reduce any unexpected Azure costs because of a spike in usage, this new option turns off the cloud service. 

> [!Important]  
> Even if the service isn't running, there are still costs associated with the cloud service. Stopping the service doesn't eliminate all associated Azure costs. To remove all cost for the cloud service, [remove the CMG](/sccm/core/clients/manage/cmg/setup-cloud-management-gateway#modify-a-cmg).  
> 
> When the CMG service is stopped, internet-based clients can't communicate with Configuration Manager.  

The total data transfer (egress) includes the following data:
- CMG deployment package and configuration files (one-time during deployment or update)
- Client policy (continual)
- CMG logging (continual)
- If you enable CMG for content: Client content (continual)

The storage alert threshold is separate. That alert monitors the capacity of your Azure storage instance.

When you select the CMG instance in the **Cloud Management Gateway** node in the console, you can see the total data transfer in the details pane. Configuration Manager checks this value every six minutes. 


### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](/sccm/core/understand/find-help#product-feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. [Set up outbound traffic alerts](/sccm/core/clients/manage/cmg/monitor-clients-cloud-management-gateway#set-up-outbound-traffic-alerts)  

2. Enable the option to **Stop this service when it exceeds the critical threshold**.  

3. To test this option, temporarily reduce one of the following values:  

    - **14-day threshold for outbound data transfer (GB)**. The default value is `10000`.  

    - **Percentage of threshold for raising Critical alert**. The default value is `90`.  

