---
author: mestew
ms.author: mstewart
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 02/18/2022
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_insights"></a> Improvements to Management Insights
<!--10875436, 12451634 -->

A new management insights group was added to [Management Insights](../../../../servers/manage/management-insights.md). The **Deprecated and unsupported features** group contains the following new rules:

- **Site system roles associated with deprecated or removed features**: This insight checks for installed site system roles for deprecated features that will be removed in a future release.<!--12451634-->
- **Check if the site uses the asset intelligence sync point role**: This insight checks for installation of the asset intelligence synchronization point role. <!--12451634-->
- **Configuration Manager client for macOS end of support**: This insight lists the clients running macOS. Support for the Configuration Manager client for macOS and Mac client management ends on December 31, 2022.<!--12451634-->
- **Certificate registration point is no longer supported**: This insight checks for installation of the certificate registration point site system role. This feature is no longer supported as of March 2022. Configuration Manager versions released before March 2022 will still be able to install and use certificate registration points.<!--10875436-->
- **Company resource access policies are no longer supported**: This insight checks for company resource access policies. These features are no longer supported as of March 2022. Company resource access includes email, certificate, VPN, Wi-Fi, and Windows Hello for Business profiles. Configuration Manager versions released before March 2022 will still be able to use company resource access policies.<!--10875436-->

> [!Note]
> The [prerequisite checker](../../../../servers/deploy/install/prerequisite-checker.md) will also check for deprecated and unsupported features.
