---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 02/18/2022
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_health"></a> New client health checks

<!--10954111-->

Based on your feedback, there are two new [Client health checks](../../../../clients/manage/client-health-checks.md) in this release:

- Verify disk space not near capacity
- Verify CCMCache is not near drive capacity

Configuration Manager client functionality can be limited when the disk is full. These checks help you maintain healthy clients, which help you better manage the devices.

This release also includes performance improvements to the [Client health dashboard](../../../../clients/manage/client-health-dashboard.md).

### Verify disk space not near capacity

Verify that the device's primary disk drive isn't close to full.

The client compares the WMI entry for free disk space against total disk space. If the space remaining is lower than 15% of total disk space, the check fails.

To remediate a failure with this check, free disk space on the primary drive.

### Verify CCMCache is not near drive capacity

Verify that the remaining cache space isn't near the available disk drive space.

The client compares the remaining cache space against free space on the drive with the client cache. If the space remaining on the drive is less than 1% of the total default size, or the remaining cache space is greater than the available drive space, the check fails.

To remediate a failure with this check, free disk space on the drive that contains the cache.
