---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 02/18/2022
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_delcollref"></a> Delete collection references

<!--9708999-->

Previously, when you would delete a collection with dependent collections, you first had to delete the dependencies. The process of finding and deleting all of these collections could be difficult and time consuming. Now when you delete a collection, you can review and delete its dependent collections at the same time.

A new **Details** window shows more information about the relationship types, and lets you [view collection relationships](../../../../clients/manage/collections/manage-collections.md#view-collection-relationships) in a graphical chart.

:::image type="content" source="../../media/9708999-delete-collection-references.png" alt-text="View collection dependencies in list and graphical form when deleting a collection" lightbox="../../media/9708999-delete-collection-references.png":::

There are several reasons why the site can't delete a dependent collection:

- **Assigned to user**: For more information, see [Modify the administrative scope of an administrative user](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/configure-role-based-administration.md#modify-the-administrative-scope-of-an-administrative-user).

- **Used by cloud attach**: For more information, see [Enable cloud attach for Configuration Manager](../../../../../cloud-attach/enable.md).

- **Use for upload to Microsoft Endpoint Manager**: For more information, see [Make Configuration Manager collections available to assign Endpoint security policies](../../../../../tenant-attach/endpoint-security-get-started.md#bkmk_collections).

The details window lists collections that can't be deleted with the reason why.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. Create multiple collections that are dependent on each other. Use relationships such as **Limiting**, **Include**, and **Exclude**. For more information, see [How to create collections in Configuration Manager](../../../../clients/manage/collections/create-collections.md).

1. Delete a collection that has dependent collections. For more information on how to delete a collection, see [Collection actions](../../../../clients/manage/collections/manage-collections.md#collection-actions).

1. In the **Delete Collection Error** window, select **Details**.

1. Once the relationship types finish loading, select **View Relationships** to see the graph.

1. If all of the dependent collections can be deleted, select **Delete all listed collections**.

1. Review the list of collections and any software deployments that the site will also remove. You also can **Delete each collection member from the database**.

### Known issue when deleting collection references

<!--13235415-->

Consider the scenario where you're deleting collections with references, and another administrative user is simultaneously creating a reference to a collection that you're deleting. When this behavior occurs, the console displays an error, and the collection isn't deleted.
