---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/26/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_365_apps"></a> Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise
<!--6298093-->
Office 365 ProPlus was renamed to Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise on April 21, 2020. Starting in this technical preview the following changes have been made:

- The Configuration Manager console has been updated to use the new name.
   - This change also includes update channel names for Microsoft 365 Apps.
- A banner notification was added to the console to notify you if one or more automatic deployment rules reference obsolete channel names in the **Title** criteria for Microsoft 365 Apps updates.

If you use **Title** as criteria for Microsoft 365 Apps updates in your automatic deployment rules, use the next section to help modify them.

### <a name="bkmk_channel"></a> Update channel information for Microsoft 365 Apps
<!--6298093-->
When Office 365 ProPlus was renamed to **Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise**, the update channels were also renamed. If you use an automatic deployment rule to deploy updates, you'll need to make changes to your rules if they rely on the **Title** property. That's because the name of update packages in the Microsoft Update Catalog is changing.

Currently, the title of an update package for Office 365 ProPlus begins with "Office 365 Client Update" as seen in the following example:

&nbsp; &nbsp; Office 365 Client Update - Semi-annual Channel Version 1908 for x64 based Edition (Build 11929.20648)

For update packages released on and after June 9, the title will begin with "Microsoft 365 Apps Update" as seen in the following example:

&nbsp; &nbsp; Microsoft 365 Apps Update - Semi-annual Channel Version 1908 for x64 based Edition (Build 11929.50000)
</br>
</br>

|New Channel name|Previous Channel name|
|--|--|
|Semi-Annual Enterprise Channel|Semi-Annual Channel|
|Semi-Annual Enterprise Channel (Preview)|Semi-Annual Channel (Targeted)|
|Monthly Enterprise Channel|NA|
|Current Channel|Monthly Channel|
|Current Channel (Preview)|Monthly Channel (Targeted)|
|Beta Channel|Insider|

For more information about how to modify your automatic deployment rules, see [Automatically deploy software updates](../../../../../sum/deploy-use/automatically-deploy-software-updates.md). For more information about the name change, see [Name change for Office 365 ProPlus](/deployoffice/name-change).