---
author: mestew
ms.author: mstewart
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-other
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 09/26/2019
ms.collection: M365-identity-device-management
---

## <a name="bkmk_OGs"></a> Orchestration Groups

<!--3098816-->

The **Orchestration Groups** feature is the evolution of the [Server Groups](/sccm/sum/deploy-use/service-a-server-group) feature. It's a brand new entity in Configuration Manager. When you create an orchestration group, you can service it with your rules including "before" and "after" scripts that you define.

### Prerequisites

Enable the **Orchestration Groups** feature from **Administration** > **Updates and Servicing** > **Features**. When you enable **Orchestration Groups**, it blocks the **Server Groups** feature to avoid any conflicts between the two features.

To see all of the orchestration groups and updates for those groups, your account needs to be a **Full Administrator**.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](/sccm/core/understand/find-help#product-feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

#### Create an orchestration group

1. Select the **Orchestration Groups** node from the **Assets and Compliance** workspace.

1. In the ribbon, select **Create Orchestration Group** to open the **Create Orchestration Group Wizard**.

1. On the **General** page, give your orchestration group a **Name** and optionally a **Description**.

1. On the **Member Selection** page, first specify the current site code. Then select **Browse** to add device resources as members of this orchestration group. **Search** for devices by name, and then **Add** them. You can add up to XXX devices to an orchestration group.

1. On the **Rule Selection** page, select one of the following options:

   - **Allow a percentage of the machines to be updated at the same time**, then select or enter a number for this percentage.

   - **Allow a number of the machines to be updated at the same time**, then select or enter a number for this specific count.

   - **Specify the maintenance sequence**, then sort the selected resources in the proper order.

1. On the **PreScript** page, enter a PowerShell script to run on each device before .... The script should return a value of `0` for success, or `3010` for success with restart. You can also specify a **Script timeout** value, which fails the script if it doesn't complete in the specified time.

1. On the **PostScript** page, enter a PowerShell script to run on each device after .... The behavior is otherwise the same as the PreScript.

1. Complete the wizard.

#### Show members

In the **Orchestration Group** node, select an orchestration group. In the ribbon, select **Show Members**. You can see the members of the group, and their orchestration status.

<!-- #### Edit an orchestration group

1. Select the **Orchestration Groups** node from the **Assets and Compliance** workspace.
1. Right-click on an orchestration group and choose **Properties**.
1. Edit your orchestration groups in the following tabs:
   - Tab 1 placeholder (General)
   - Tab 2 placeholder (Members)
   - Tab 3 placeholder (Rules)
   - Tab 4 placeholder (Install scripts)
-->

#### Patch an orchestration group

1. Select the **Orchestration Groups** node from the **Assets and Compliance** workspace.
1. Right-click an orchestration group and select **Patch Now???/**

#### Monitor the status of orchestration group patching

1. Select the **Orchestration Groups** node from the **Assets and Compliance** workspace.
1. Right-click an orchestration group......

### Log files
- Log1.log
- Log2.log

### Known issues

- Don't add a machine to more than one orchestration group.

- When searching a collection to select resources for an orchestration group, only choose **All Desktop and Server Clients**.

- If you right-click an orchestration group, only the default **Show Members** action works.

- The **Orchestration Type** values correspond to the following types:
    1. Number
    2. Percentage
    3. Sequence
