---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-other
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 09/26/2019
ms.collection: M365-identity-device-management
---

## <a name="bkmk_dodcmg"></a> Task sequence download on demand over the internet

<!--3601238-->
Since Configuration Manager version 1802, you can use the task sequence to [deploy Windows 10 in-place upgrade via cloud management gateway (CMG)](/sccm/osd/deploy-use/deploy-a-task-sequence#deploy-windows-10-in-place-upgrade-via-cmg). However, it requires the deployment to download all content locally before starting the task sequence.

Starting in this release, the task sequence engine can download packages on-demand from a content-enabled CMG or a cloud distribution point. This change provides additional flexibility with your Windows 10 in-place upgrade deployments to internet-based devices.

### Prerequisites

- [A task sequence to upgrade an OS](/sccm/osd/deploy-use/create-a-task-sequence-to-upgrade-an-operating-system)

- [A cloud management gateway (CMG)](/sccm/core/clients/manage/cmg/setup-cloud-management-gateway)

- Distribute the packages for the task sequence to the content-enabled CMG or a [cloud distribution point](/sccm/core/plan-design/hierarchy/use-a-cloud-based-distribution-point).

  - When using a content enabled CMG:
    - Enable the [CMG setting](/sccm/core/clients/manage/cmg/setup-cloud-management-gateway#settings): **Allow CMG to function as a cloud distribution point and serve content from Azure storage**.
    - Configure [client settings for Cloud Services](/sccm/core/clients/deploy/about-client-settings#cloud-services) to use CMG and get content from the internet.

- Start the task sequence from Software Center. This scenario doesn't support Windows PE, PXE, or task sequence media.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](/sccm/core/understand/find-help#product-feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

When you [deploy the task sequence](/sccm/osd/deploy-use/deploy-a-task-sequence), use the following settings:

- **Allow task sequence to run for client on the Internet**, on the User Experience tab of the deployment.

- **Download content locally when needed by the running task sequence**, on the Distribution Points tab of the deployment.