---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 07/14/2020
---


## <a name="bkmk_mem"></a> Tenant attach: View hardware inventory in Microsoft Intune admin center
<!--6479284-->

Hardware inventory can now be viewed for a tenant attached Configuration Manager device in the admin center. 

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

#### Prerequisites

- An environment that's [tenant attached with uploaded devices](../../../../../tenant-attach/device-sync-actions.md).
- One of the following browsers:
  - Microsoft Edge, version 77 and later
  - Google Chrome
- The user account has been discovered with both [Microsoft Entra user discovery](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/about-discovery-methods.md#azureaddisc) and [Active Directory user discovery](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/about-discovery-methods.md#bkmk_aboutUser).
  - Meaning the user account needs to be a synced user object in Azure.

#### Permissions

The user account needs the following permissions:

- The **Admin User** role for the Configuration Manager Microservice application in Microsoft Entra ID.
  - Add the role in Microsoft Entra ID from **Enterprise applications** > **Configuration Manager Microservice** > **Users and groups** > **Add user**. Groups are supported if you have Microsoft Entra ID P1 or P2.

#### View hardware inventory 

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace and select the **Devices** node.
1. Right-click on a device that's been uploaded to Microsoft Intune.
1. In the right-click menu, select **Start** > **Admin Center Preview** to open the preview in your browser.
   - This launch is a preview experience. The final location will be in Microsoft Intune admin center.
1. Select **Resource Explorer** to view the hardware inventory.
   - Classes with large amounts of data will only return the first 50 entries.
