---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 09/26/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_bitlocker"></a> Improvements to BitLocker management

<!--3601034-->

Starting in [technical preview version 1905](../../technical-preview-1905.md#bkmk_bitlocker), you could use Configuration Manager to install and manage the Microsoft BitLocker Administration and Monitoring (MBAM) client. This release now adds support for integrated reports, a helpdesk portal for administration and monitoring, and a self-service portal for users. For more information about these capabilities, see the following articles:

- [Viewing MBAM reports for Configuration Manager integration](/microsoft-desktop-optimization-pack/mbam-v25/viewing-mbam-25-reports-for-the-configuration-manager-integration-topology)

- [How to use the administration and monitoring website](/microsoft-desktop-optimization-pack/mbam-v25/how-to-use-the-administration-and-monitoring-website)

- [How to use the self-service portal](/microsoft-desktop-optimization-pack/mbam-v25/how-to-use-the-self-service-portal-to-regain-access-to-a-computer-mbam-25)

### Prerequisites

- Install the reporting services point site system role. For more information, see [Configure reporting](../../../../servers/manage/configuring-reporting.md).

- A web server to host the MBAM components

  - Running a [supported OS version for site system servers](../../../../plan-design/configs/supported-operating-systems-for-site-system-servers.md)

  - [ASP.NET MVC 4.0](/aspnet/mvc/mvc4)

- The user account that runs the MBAM installer script needs SQL Server **sysadmin** rights on the site database server. During the MBAM setup process, the script sets login, user, and SQL Server role rights for the web server machine account. You can remove this user account from the sysadmin role after you complete MBAM setup.

### Script usage

This process uses a PowerShell script, MBAMWebSiteInstaller.ps1, to install the MBAM components on the web server. It accepts the following parameters:

- `-SqlServerName <ServerName>` (required): The name of the site database server

- `-SqlInstanceName <InstanceName>`: The SQL Server instance name for the site database. This parameter is optional if SQL Server uses the default instance.

- `-SqlDatabaseName <DatabaseName>` (required): The name of the site database, for example `CM_ABC`.

- `-ReportWebServiceUrl <ReportWebServiceUrl>`: The web service URL of the reporting service point. It's the **Web Service URL** value in **Reporting Services Configuration Manager**.

- `-HelpdeskUsersGroupName <DomainUserGroup>`: For example, `contoso\mbamusers`. A domain user group whose members have access to the **Manage TPM** and **Drive Recovery** areas of the MBAM administration and monitoring website. When using these options, this role needs to fill in all fields, including the user's domain and account name.

- `-HelpdeskAdminsGroupName <DomainUserGroup>`: For example, `contoso\mbamadmin`. A domain user group whose members have access to all recovery areas of the administration and monitoring website. When helping users recover their drives, this role only has to enter the recovery key.

- `-MbamReportUsersGroupName <DomainUserGroup>`: For example, `contoso\mbamreports`. A domain user group whose members have read-only access to the **Reports** area of the administration and monitoring website.

- `-SiteInstall Both`: Specify which of the components to install. Valid options include:
  - `Both`: Install both components
  - `HelpDesk`: Install only the helpdesk portal
  - `SSP`: Install only the self-service portal

- `IISWebSite`: The website where the script installs the MBAM web applications. By default, it uses the IIS default website.

- `InstallDirectory`: The path where the script installs the web application files. By default, this path is `C:\inetpub`.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

On the web server that hosts the MBAM components, do the following actions:

1. Copy the following files from `SMSSETUP\BIN\X64` to a local folder:

    - `MBAMWebSite.cab`
    - `MBAMWebSiteInstaller.ps1`

1. Run PowerShell as an administrator, and then run the script similar to the following command line:

  `.\MBAMWebSiteInstaller.ps1 -SqlServerName <ServerName> -SqlInstanceName <InstanceName> -SqlDatabaseName <DatabaseName> -ReportWebServiceUrl <ReportWebServiceUrl> -HelpdeskUsersGroupName <DomainUserGroup> -HelpdeskAdminsGroupName <DomainUserGroup> -MbamReportUsersGroupName <DomainUserGroup> -SiteInstall Both`

After installation, access the portals via the following URLs:

- Self-service portal: `https://webserver/SelfService`
- Helpdesk portal: `https://webserver/HelpDesk`

> [!NOTE]
> Microsoft recommends but doesn't require the use of HTTPS. For more information, see [How to Set Up SSL on IIS](/iis/manage/configuring-security/how-to-set-up-ssl-on-iis).

### Verify

Monitor and troubleshoot using the following logs:

- Windows Event logs under **Microsoft-Windows-MBAM-Server/Operational** and **Microsoft-Windows-MBAM-Server/Admin**. For more information, see [Server event logs](/microsoft-desktop-optimization-pack/mbam-v25/server-event-logs).

- Trace logs for each component:

  - Self-service portal: `<InstallDirectory>\Microsoft BitLocker Management Solution\Logs\Self Service Website`

  - Helpdesk portal: `<InstallDirectory>\Microsoft BitLocker Management Solution\Logs\Help Desk Website`

  > [!NOTE]
  > By default, the `<InstallDirectory>` is `C:\inetpub`.