---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 09/26/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_dodcmg"></a> Task sequence download on demand over the internet

<!--3601238-->
Since Configuration Manager version 1802, you can use the task sequence to [deploy Windows 10 in-place upgrade via cloud management gateway (CMG)](../../../../../osd/deploy-use/deploy-task-sequence-over-internet.md#deploy-windows-in-place-upgrade-via-cmg). However, it requires the deployment to download all content locally before starting the task sequence.

Starting in this release, the task sequence engine can download packages on-demand from a content-enabled CMG or a cloud distribution point. This change provides additional flexibility with your Windows 10 in-place upgrade deployments to internet-based devices.

### Prerequisites

- [A task sequence to upgrade an OS](../../../../../osd/deploy-use/create-a-task-sequence-to-upgrade-an-operating-system.md)

- [A cloud management gateway (CMG)](../../../../clients/manage/cmg/setup-cloud-management-gateway.md)

- Distribute the packages for the task sequence to the content-enabled CMG or a [cloud distribution point](../../../../plan-design/hierarchy/use-a-cloud-based-distribution-point.md).

  - When using a content enabled CMG:
    - Enable the [CMG setting](../../../../clients/manage/cmg/modify-cloud-management-gateway.md#settings-tab): **Allow CMG to function as a cloud distribution point and serve content from Azure storage**.
    - Configure [client settings for Cloud Services](../../../../clients/deploy/about-client-settings.md#cloud-services) to use CMG and get content from the internet.

- Start the task sequence from Software Center. This scenario doesn't support Windows PE, PXE, or task sequence media.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

When you [deploy the task sequence](../../../../../osd/deploy-use/deploy-a-task-sequence.md), use the following settings:

- **Allow task sequence to run for client on the Internet**, on the User Experience tab of the deployment.

- **Download content locally when needed by the running task sequence**, on the Distribution Points tab of the deployment.