---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 10/11/2021
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_appgroups"></a> Improvements to application groups

This release includes the following improvements to [application group](../../../../../apps/deploy-use/create-app-groups.md):

- Now when you deploy an app group as required to a device or user collection, you can specify that it automatically uninstalls when the resource is removed from the collection.<!--10479618--> For more general information on this feature, see [Implicit uninstall](../../../../../apps/deploy-use/uninstall-applications.md#implicit-uninstall).

- The following [app approval](../../../../../apps/deploy-use/app-approval.md) behaviors are now supported with app groups:<!-- 10992210 -->

  - Deploy an app group to a user collection and require approval.
    - A user can then request the app group in Software Center.
    - You can approve or deny the user's request for the app group.

  - Deploy an app group to a device collection and require approval. The deployment is suspended on the device until you trigger installation via automation. For example, use the [Approve-CMApprovalRequest](/powershell/module/configurationmanager/approve-cmapprovalrequest) PowerShell cmdlet.

  - From the Configuration Manager console, when you select a device, there's a new action in the **Device** group of the ribbon to **Install Application Group**. For more information, see [Install applications for a device](../../../../../apps/deploy-use/install-app-for-device.md).

  - When you enable tenant attach, you can view status and take actions on app groups from the Microsoft Intune admin center. For more information, see [Install an application from the admin center](../../../../../tenant-attach/applications.md).

### Known issues for app groups in this technical preview release

- If an app group was previously approved and installed on a device, the **Deny** action doesn't automatically uninstall it.

- To view and manage app groups in the Microsoft Intune admin center, your account needs the **Full Administrator** role in Configuration Manager.
