---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 10/11/2021
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_notify"></a> Improvements to external notifications

<!--10615989-->

Starting in Configuration Manager current branch version 2107, you could enable the site to send notifications to an external system or application. This feature used a PowerShell script to manage the status filter rules and subscriptions. For more information, see [External notifications](../../../../servers/manage/external-notifications.md).

This release adds support in the Configuration Manager console to create or edit a subscription for external notifications. It supports events for status filter rules and application approval requests.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. Create an Azure Logic App and copy the URL. For more information, see [Create an Azure logic app and workflow](../../../../servers/manage/external-notifications.md#create-an-azure-logic-app-and-workflow).

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Monitoring** workspace. Expand **Alerts**, and select the new **External service notifications** node.

1. In the ribbon, select **Create subscription**.

1. Specify a **Name** for the subscription to identify it in the Configuration Manager console. Optionally add a **Description**.

1. For the **External service URL** value, paste the URL of the Azure Logic App that you copied in the first step.

1. Select the gold asterisk :::image type="icon" source="../../media/new-icon.png" border="false"::: to add a new event to the subscription.

How to trigger an event depends upon the type of subscription:

- For a status filter rule, trigger an event for the site component. For example, stop or restart the service or thread.
- For an app approval request, use Software Center to request an app that requires approval.

For more information on next steps, see [Monitor the workflow](../../../../servers/manage/external-notifications.md#monitor-the-workflow).
