---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 10/11/2021
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_health"></a> Improvements to client health dashboard

<!--5728069-->

This release includes improvements to the [Client health dashboard](../../../../clients/manage/client-health-dashboard.md).

:::image type="content" source="../../media/5728069-client-health-dashboard-small.png" alt-text="An example of the updated Client Health Dashboard." lightbox="../../media/5728069-client-health-dashboard.png":::

- While you can configure the dashboard to limit the view by collection, previously it would reset to the **All Systems** collection when you refreshed the node. You can now select the ribbon action to **Choose Default Collection**, which sets a persistent user preference.

- You still use the **Client Status Settings** action to configure the periods of time to evaluate client health. This action is now available in the ribbon of the **Client health dashboard** node. This change makes it easier to access this action, without needing to switch to the parent node for **Client Status**.

- The existing options to filter the dashboard are now condensed to a single **Filter** tile.

- The **Overall client health** tile is on the top row, which makes it easier to see when you select this node. This percentage should be as close to 100% as possible.

- The **Combined (All)** and **Combined (Any)** scenarios are removed. A new tile, **Clients with any failure**, shows the percentage of clients that report any health issue. This percentage should be as close to 0% as possible.

- The dashboard includes a new tile for **Health trends by scenario**. It shows the percentage of healthy clients for the selected scenario. Use the slider control at the top of the tile to adjust the number of days to display in the chart.

  > [!NOTE]
  > This maximum value for the slider control is the same as the **Retain client status history for the following number of days** in **Client Status Settings**. It's `31` days by default.
  >
  > It's limited by the amount of client health data in the site database. In the following example, while it's configured to display 31 days of history, there's only three days of available data.

  The following example shows the trend for client health evaluation:

    :::image type="content" source="../../media/5728069-health-trends-hardware-inventory.png" alt-text="An example of the Client Health Dashboard, Health Trends By Scenario tile.":::
