---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 10/11/2021
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---
## <a name="bkmk_orchestration"></a> Approvals for orchestration group scripts
<!--9957939-->
Pre and post-scripts for [Orchestration groups](../../../../../sum/deploy-use/orchestration-groups.md) now require approval to take effect. If you open, author, or modify a script, approval for the script is required from another admin. When selecting an approved script from the [**Scripts** library](../../../../../apps/deploy-use/create-deploy-scripts.md), no additional approval is needed. By default, users can't approve a script they've authored. These roles give an additional level of security against running a script without oversight. For ease of testing, you're able to [disable script approval](../../../../../apps/deploy-use/create-deploy-scripts.md#allow-users-to-approve-their-own-scripts) for the environment by changing the hierarchy setting.

To assist you with script approval, the following two tabs were added to the details pane for **Orchestration Groups**:
   - **Summary**: Contains information about the selected orchestration group, including the **Approval State** of scripts.
   - **Scripts**: Lists information about pre and post-scripts, including the timeout, approver, and approval state for each script.

:::image type="content" source="../../media/9957939-orchestration-group-scripts-tab.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Scripts tab for an orchestration group." lightbox="../../media/9957939-orchestration-group-scripts-tab.png":::

### Approval states for pre and post-scripts

The approval state for each of the scripts is displayed in the **Scripts** tab. Editing a script after it's approved will reset the approval state. The **Approval State** for each script is defined below:

- **Approved**: The script is approved. Approval is granted from either of the following ways:
   - Selecting a script from the list of approved PowerShell scripts
   - Manual approval of the script by selecting **Approve** from the ribbon or the right-click menu.
- **Waiting for approval**: The script is pending approval. Scripts that are written or edited directly in the code editor, or imported from a `.ps1` file will start in this approval state.
- **Declined**: The script was denied during the approval process.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Editing a script after it's approved will reset the approval state to **Waiting for approval**. This also means that the previously approved version of the script will not run if you start orchestration on the group while that script is in the **Waiting for approval** state.  

### Permissions
Approving scripts for orchestration groups requires one of the following security roles:

- Full Administrator
- Operations Administrator

### Approve or deny a script for an orchestration group

1. From the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace > **Overview** > **Orchestration Groups**.
1. Select an orchestration group and then select the **Scripts tab** for the group.
1. Select one of the scripts and choose **Approve/Deny** from either the ribbon or the right-click menu.
1. Review the script from the **Script Details** page in the **Approve or Deny Script** wizard. Select **Next** when you're finished reviewing the script.
1. On the **Script Approval** page in the wizard, select **Approve** or **Deny**. If needed, enter in a comment to be displayed in the **Scripts** detail pane.
1. Complete the wizard to finish the approval process.
