---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 01/27/2022
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_tsico"></a> Custom icon support for task sequences and packages

<!--12486335-->

Previously, task sequences and legacy packages would always display a default icon in Software Center. Based on your feedback, you can now add custom icons for task sequences and legacy packages. These icons appear in Software Center when you deploy these objects. Instead of a default icon, a custom icon can improve the user experience to better identify the software.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. If needed, [create a task sequence](../../../../../osd/deploy-use/manage-task-sequences-to-automate-tasks.md) or [create a package and program](../../../../../apps/deploy-use/packages-and-programs.md#create-a-package-and-program).

1. Open the properties of a task sequence or package.

1. For a task sequence, switch to the **More Options** tab. For a package, the icon option is on the **General** tab.

    > [!NOTE]
    > The existing task sequence property page for **Performance** is now renamed to **More Options**.

1. In the section for the icon, select **Browse**. Select an icon from the default shell library, or browse to another file in a local or network path.

    - It supports the following file types:
      - Programs (`.exe`)
      - Libraries (`.dll`)
      - Icons (`.ico`)
      - Images (`.png`, `.jpeg`, `.jpg`)
    - The file doesn't need to be on clients that you target with the deployment. Configuration Manager includes the image with the deployment policy.
    - The maximum file size for an image is 256 KB.
    - Icons can have pixel dimensions of up to 512 x 512.

After you save the properties, deploy the task sequence or package, if it's not already deployed. For more information, see one of the following articles:

- [Deploy a task sequence](../../../../../osd/deploy-use/deploy-a-task-sequence.md)
- [Deploy packages and programs](../../../../../apps/deploy-use/packages-and-programs.md#deploy-packages-and-programs)

When clients receive the deployment policy, they'll display the icon in Software Center.

> [!NOTE]
> To take full advantage of new Configuration Manager features, after you update the site, also update clients to the latest version. While new functionality appears in the Configuration Manager console when you update the site and console, the complete scenario isn't functional until the client version is also the latest.

### Known issues with icons for legacy packages

- To change the icon on an existing package that's already deployed, change another setting of the package or create a new deployment.<!-- 13040507 -->

- Custom icons only appear for legacy packages that you deploy to device collections. They don't yet support user-based deployments.
