---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 01/27/2022
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_ledbat"></a> LEDBAT support for software update points

<!--4639895-->

You can now enable Windows Low Extra Delay Background Transport (LEDBAT) for your software update points. LEDBAT adjusts download speeds during client scans against WSUS to help control network congestion.

If a site system has both the distribution point and software update point roles, you can configure LEDBAT independently on the roles. For example, if you only enable LEDBAT on the distribution point role, the software update point role doesn't inherit the same configuration.

For more general information on Windows LEDBAT, see [Fundamental concepts for content management](../../../../plan-design/hierarchy/fundamental-concepts-for-content-management.md#windows-ledbat).

### Prerequisites for LEDBAT on software update points

To use LEDBAT in this scenario, install the software update point role on a site system running Windows Server 2016 or later.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Administration** workspace, expand **Site Configuration**, and select the **Servers and Site System Roles** node.

1. Select a site system that has the software update point role.

1. In the details pane of site system roles, select the **Software update point** role.

1. In the ribbon, on the **Site Role** group, select **Properties**.

1. On the **General** tab of the software update point properties, enable the following setting: **Adjust the download speed to use the unused network bandwidth (Windows LEDBAT)**.
