---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 01/27/2022
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_cmgsup"></a> Prefer cloud-based software update points on switching
<!--7759984-->
Clients now prefer to scan against a cloud management gateway (CMG) software update point (SUP) over an on-premises SUP when the boundary group uses the **Prefer cloud based source over on-premises source** option. To reduce the performance impact of this change, clients [don't automatically switch their SUP](../../../../../sum/plan-design/plan-for-software-updates.md#BKMK_SUPSwitching) to a cloud-based SUP. The client will stay assigned to their current SUP unless their current SUP fails or the client is manually switched to a new SUP.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. Ensure your [cloud management gateway](../../../../clients/manage/cmg/set-up-checklist.md?toc=/mem/configmgr/cloud-attach/toc.json&bc=/mem/configmgr/cloud-attach/breadcrumb/toc.json) is configured and functional
1. Verify that your [software update points](../../../../../sum/get-started/install-a-software-update-point.md) are functional and synchronized.
1. Enable the [**Allow Configuration Manager cloud management gateway traffic**](../../../../clients/manage/cmg/setup-cloud-management-gateway.md#bkmk_role) option for any SUP you want to use with CMG.
    1. Go to **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Servers and Site System Roles**. Select **Properties** on the software update point site system role from the site server you want to use.
    1. On the **General** tab, enable the **Allow Configuration Manager cloud management gateway traffic** option.
1. [Configure the boundary group](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/boundary-group-procedures.md#configure-a-boundary-group) for this behavior by enabling the **Prefer cloud based sources over on-premises sources** option and adding the CGM SUP server to the **Site system servers** list.
   1. Go to **Administration** > **Hierarchy Configuration** > **Boundary Groups**. Edit the boundary groups where you want clients to prefer a CMG SUP for updates scanning.
    1. Select **Properties** for the boundary group.
    1. In the **References** tab, select **Add...** and add the CMG SUP to the **Site system servers** list.
    1. In the **Options** tab, select the **Prefer cloud based sources over on-premises sources** option.
    1. Select **OK** to save the settings and to close the boundary group properties window.
1. To manually switch clients to a new SUP, use the **Switch to next Software Update Point** [client notification](../../../../clients/manage/client-notification.md#switch-to-the-next-software-update-point) action for a device or for a collection.
   - Clients in the boundary group [don't automatically switch to a new SUP](../../../../../sum/plan-design/plan-for-software-updates.md#BKMK_SUPSwitching) unless scanning against their current SUP fails four times over the course of two hours.
1. To verify that clients prefer the CMG SUP, start a software update scan cycle on some of the clients that you switched.
   - To limit potential performance issues caused by a large number of clients scanning against a new SUP simultaneously, we recommend that if you're immediately calling a scan cycle on a large number of clients that you start with no more than 100 clients every 10-15 minutes. Increase or decrease the number of clients and the frequency once you gauge the performance impact in your environment.
1. The client's **LocationServices.log** will show the CMG SUP listed as the first `LocationRecord WSUSURL` in the `WSUSLocationReply`. The CMG SUP will also be listed as the server for the update scan in the **WUAHandler.log**.
