---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 01/27/2022
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_contentviz"></a> Visualize content distribution status

<!--9495651-->

You can now monitor content distribution path and status in a graphical format. The graph shows distribution point type, distribution state, and associated status messages. This visualization allows you to more easily understand the status of your content package distribution. It helps you answer questions like:

- Has the site successfully distributed the content?
- Is the content distribution in progress?
- Which distribution points have already processed the content?

:::image type="content" source="../../media/9495651-view-content-distribution.png" alt-text="Visualization of content distribution status of the Configuration Manager client package in an example hierarchy.":::

This example shows a graph for the content distribution status of the Configuration Manager client package in an example hierarchy. It lets you easily see the following information:

- The solid blue line from the site server to each distribution point indicates that the rate limit is **Unlimited**. For more information, see [Rate limits](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/install-and-configure-distribution-points.md#bkmk_config-rate).
- The green check mark on `DP01` and `DP02` indicates that the content was successfully distributed to these site systems.
- The red `X` on `DP03` and both cloud distribution points indicates that there's an error in distributing the content to these site systems.

> [!TIP]
> Navigating this graph is similar to the [collection relationships graphical view](../../../../clients/manage/collections/view-relationships.md). That article includes tips to navigate the viewer, many of which also apply to this graph for content distribution.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Monitoring** workspace, expand **Distribution Status** and select the **Content Status** node.

1. If this node doesn't show anything, first [distribute content](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/deploy-and-manage-content.md#bkmk_distribute).

1. Select a distributed content item. For example, the **Configuration Manager client package**.

1. In the ribbon, select **View Content Distribution**. This action displays the distribution graph for the selected content.

    - Hover over the status icon to quickly view more information. Select the path or the status icon to view status messages for the content.

    - Hover over the title of the site system to quickly view more information. Select it to drill through to the **Distribution Points** node.
