---
title: Summary of changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2309
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Article listing changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2309
ms.date: 10/30/2023
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 6ac4d4b6-cdf5-45af-9899-3aa86980fca3
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: apoorvseth
ms.reviewer: mstewart,aaroncz 
ms.collection: tier3
---

# Summary of changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2309

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2309)*

## Summary of KB24341484
Release version 2309 of Configuration Manager current branch contains fixes and feature improvements.
The "Issues that are fixed" list isn't inclusive of all changes. Instead, it highlights changes the product development team believes are most relevant to the broad Configuration Manager customer base. These changes were made in response to direct customer feedback about product issues and improvements.

##### Notes
- Version 2309 is available as an in-console update that can be installed at the top-tier site in a hierarchy.
- The globally available version of 2309, released on November 1, 2023, also applies to environments that have the early update ring or Technology Adoption Program (TAP) builds.
- For installation information, see [Checklist for installing update 2309 for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/checklist-for-installing-update-2309.md).
- For more information about the changes that are included in version 2309, see [What's new in version 2309 of Configuration Manager current branch](../../core/plan-design/changes/whats-new-in-version-2309.md).
- This release contains all of the fixes summarized in the following article.

   KB [21010486](../../hotfix/2303/21010486.md): Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2303

## Issues that are fixed
<!-- 3013243 -->
- The status for all site system roles shows as Critical after recovering a site to a different drive letter from the original installation.

<!-- 12874521 -->
- Discovery and remediation scripts of a previously deleted baseline might still run on a client when an existing baseline is evaluated. 

<!-- 16225207 -->
- Memory management in the Configuration Manager console is improved to address virtual memory beyond the 2-GB range.

<!-- 16235012, 24435111  -->
- The *Summary* chart for an App deployment in the *Deployments* node of the console isn't consistent with the counts displayed for that deployment.

<!-- 17436872 -->
- The synchronization of collection members to Microsoft Entra groups might stop unexpectedly. SQL tracing shows an error message similar to the following text:
   ```text
   Violation of PRIMARY KEY constraint 'CollectionAADGroupMember_PK'. Cannot insert duplicate key in object 'dbo.CollectionAADGroupMember'. The duplicate key value is (e54a38c8-9c00-46d7-861f-5e2153200df9, 16777219, a2073376-4d1b-45bd-b1e8-0a0d0f6151ee).
   ```

<!-- 17776096 -->
- The network adapters on Modern Standby capable devices might wake up unexpectedly and generate DHCP requests, although the device itself doesn't wake. This happens when the *Allow Network wake-up* client setting is enabled. Beginning with version 2309, the *Reduce network packets for Modern Standby devices* client setting is available to prevent this behavior. See [Reduce network packets for Modern Standby devices](../../core/clients/deploy/about-client-settings.md#reduce-network-packets-for-modern-standby-devices) for more information.

<!-- 24766267 -->
- Content location requests sent from a client fails if there's an apostrophe in the client's network adapter or active directory site name.

<!-- 9217349 -->
- The **Windows Defender Exploit Guard Attack Surface Reduction** rule applicability check for Windows Server incorrectly marks servers as compliant without any enforcement.

<!-- 15855196 -->
- Data from Active Directory Group Discovery supersedes and overwrites data from Microsoft Entra group Discovery. This leads to inconsistent collection membership and query results.

<!-- 6167745, 2839966 -->
The following features first introduced in Technical Preview version 2305 are now available in the Configuration Manager console.
- The **Delete Aged Task Execution Status Messages** maintenance task.
- The **Enable Preferred Management Point(s) for PXE requests** option. 
- Escrowing a recovery key to the Configuration Manager database is now supported using ProvisionTS.
- The client certificate state in console (self-signed) now matches the state in control panel (PKI).

For more information, see [Features in Configuration Manager technical preview version 2305](../../core/get-started/2023/technical-preview-2305.md).

## Issues that are fixed in the globally available release
- KB [25073607](../../hotfix/2303/25073607.md): Client update for Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2303
<!-- 25357827 -->
- BulkRegistrationTokenTool.exe is revised from earlier builds of 2309.
<!-- 25343365 -->
- The CleanIISLogs scheduled task is updated to remove log files on drives other than the system drive.

## Hotfixes that are included in this update
- KB [21010486](../../hotfix/2303/21010486.md): Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2303
- KB [24721208](../../hotfix/2303/24721208.md): Slow data processing in Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2303

## Dependency changes ##
- Update Orchestrator Service (USO) components USOHandler.dll and USOWrapper.dll are added to client.msi installation file. 
