memdocs/configmgr/develop/core/servers/manage/how-to-read-user-defined-status-messages.md, before:

---
title: "Read User-Defined Status Messages"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
ms.date: "09/20/2016"
ms.prod: "configuration-manager"
ms.technology: configmgr-sdk
ms.topic: how-to
ms.assetid: 710c50b4-d898-4244-ba77-f5499d737ce4
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: null
ms.collection: openauth


---
# How to Read User-Defined Status Messages
In Configuration Manager, you can read user-defined status messages, on the site server, by querying the SMS Provider.  

### To read a user-defined status messages  

1.  Set up a connection to the SMS Provider. For more information, see [SMS Provider fundamentals](../../understand/sms-provider-fundamentals.md).  

2.  Query the provider for the SMS`_StatusMessage` instances you want. As part of the query get the insertion string values from `SMS_SMS_StatMsgInStrings` and the attribute value from `SMS_StatMsgAttributes`.  

## Example  
 The following example reads error message status messages for the sample created in [How to Report User-Defined Status Messages Using WMI](../../../../develop/core/servers/manage/how-to-report-user-defined-status-messages.md). Make sure the `MyPackageID` and `MyApplication` values in the query match in both samples.  

 For information about calling the sample code, see [Calling Configuration Manager Code Snippets](../../../../develop/core/understand/calling-code-snippets.md).  

```vbs  
Sub ReadErrorStatusMesage(connection)  

    Dim queryWQL  
    Dim message  
    Dim messageSet  
    Dim statusMessage  
    Dim insertionString  
    Dim attributes  

    queryWQL = "SELECT b.Component, b.MachineName, b.MessageType, b.MessageID, " & _  
            "       c.InsStrValue, d.AttributeValue " & _  
            "FROM SMS_StatusMessage b " & _  
            "     JOIN SMS_StatMsgInsStrings c ON b.RecordID = c.RecordID " & _  
            "     JOIN SMS_StatMsgAttributes d ON c.RecordID = d.RecordID " & _  
            "WHERE b.Component = 'MyApplication' " & _  
            "AND   d.AttributeID = 400 " & _  
            "AND   d.AttributeValue = 'MyPackageID' "  

    Set messageSet = connection.ExecQuery(queryWQL)  

    For Each message in messageSet  

        ' Get the message objects.  
        statusMessage = message.Properties_.Item("b")  
        insertionString = message.Properties_.Item("c")  
        attributes = message.Properties_.Item("d")  

        ' Display the message details.  
        WScript.Echo "Message: " + insertionString.Properties_.Item("insstrvalue")  
        WScript.Echo "Component: " + statusMessage.Properties_.Item("Component")  
        WScript.Echo "Computer: " + statusMessage.Properties_.Item("MachineName")  
        WScript.Echo "MessageID: " + Cstr(statusMessage.Properties_.Item("MessageID"))  
        WScript.Echo attributes.Properties_.Item("attributevalue")  
        WScript.Echo  

    Next                          

 End Sub  

```  

```c#  
public void ReadErrorStatusMessage(WqlConnectionManager connection)  
{  
    try  
    {  
        string queryWQL = "SELECT b.Component, b.MachineName, " +  
                "       b.MessageType, b.MessageID, " +  
                "       c.insstrvalue, d.attributevalue " +  
                "FROM SMS_StatusMessage b " +  
                "     JOIN SMS_StatMsgInsStrings c ON b.RecordID = c.RecordID " +  
                "     JOIN SMS_StatMsgAttributes d ON c.RecordID = d.RecordID " +  
                "WHERE b.Component = \"MyApplication\" " +   
                "AND   d.AttributeID = 400 " +  
                "AND   d.AttributeValue = \"MyPackageID\" ";  

        IResultObject query = connection.QueryProcessor.ExecuteQuery(queryWQL);  
        foreach (IResultObject o in query)  
        {  

            ManagementBaseObject  statusMessage = (ManagementBaseObject)o["b"].ObjectValue;  
            ManagementBaseObject insertionString = (ManagementBaseObject)o["c"].ObjectValue;  
            ManagementBaseObject attributes = (ManagementBaseObject)o["d"].ObjectValue;  

            Console.WriteLine("Message: " + insertionString["insstrvalue"]);  
            Console.WriteLine("Component: " + statusMessage["Component"]);  
            Console.WriteLine("Computer: " + statusMessage["MachineName"]);  
            Console.WriteLine("MessageID: " + statusMessage["MessageID"]);  
            Console.WriteLine(attributes["attributevalue"]);  
            Console.WriteLine();  
        }  
    }  
    catch (SmsException ex)  
    {  
        Console.WriteLine("Failed to read status message: ", ex.Message);  
        throw;  
    }  
}  

```  

 The example method has the following parameters:  

|Parameter|Type|Description|  
|---------------|----------|-----------------|  
|`connection`|-   Managed: [WqlConnectionManager](../../understand/managed-sms-provider-fundamentals-in-configuration-manager.md#wqlconnectionmanager)<br />-   VBScript: [SWbemServices](/windows/win32/wmisdk/swbemservices)|A valid connection to the SMS Provider. For more information, see [SMS Provider fundamentals](../../understand/sms-provider-fundamentals.md).|  

## Compiling the Code  
 This C# example requires:  

### Namespaces  
 System  

 System.Collections.Generic  

 System.Text  

 System.Management  

 Microsoft.ConfigurationManagement.ManagementProvider  

 Microsoft.ConfigurationManagement.ManagementProvider.WqlQueryEngine  

### Assembly  
 adminui.wqlqueryengine  

 microsoft.configurationmanagement.managementprovider  

 System.Management  

## Robust Programming  
 For more information about error handling, see [About Configuration Manager Errors](../../../../develop/core/understand/about-configuration-manager-errors.md).  

## .NET Framework Security  
 For more information about securing Configuration Manager applications, see [Configuration Manager role-based administration](../../../../develop/core/servers/configure/role-based-administration.md).  

## See Also  
 [About Configuration Manager Status Messages](../../../../develop/core/servers/manage/about-configuration-manager-status-messages.md)   
 [How to Report User-Defined Status Messages](../../../../develop/core/servers/manage/how-to-report-user-defined-status-messages.md)   
 [SMS_StatusMessage Server WMI Class](../../../../develop/reference/core/servers/manage/sms_statusmessage-server-wmi-class.md)   
 [How To Delete Status Messages](../../../../develop/core/servers/manage/how-to-delete-status-messages.md)

Commit message:

[Bulk] Validation: Fix missing description in metadata 3/31

memdocs/configmgr/develop/core/servers/manage/how-to-read-user-defined-status-messages.md, after:

---
title: "Read User-Defined Status Messages"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
description: "In Configuration Manager, you can read user-defined status messages, on the site server, by querying the SMS Provider."
ms.date: "09/20/2016"
ms.prod: "configuration-manager"
ms.technology: configmgr-sdk
ms.topic: how-to
ms.assetid: 710c50b4-d898-4244-ba77-f5499d737ce4
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: null
ms.collection: openauth


---
# How to Read User-Defined Status Messages
In Configuration Manager, you can read user-defined status messages, on the site server, by querying the SMS Provider.  

### To read a user-defined status messages  

1.  Set up a connection to the SMS Provider. For more information, see [SMS Provider fundamentals](../../understand/sms-provider-fundamentals.md).  

2.  Query the provider for the SMS`_StatusMessage` instances you want. As part of the query get the insertion string values from `SMS_SMS_StatMsgInStrings` and the attribute value from `SMS_StatMsgAttributes`.  

## Example  
 The following example reads error message status messages for the sample created in [How to Report User-Defined Status Messages Using WMI](../../../../develop/core/servers/manage/how-to-report-user-defined-status-messages.md). Make sure the `MyPackageID` and `MyApplication` values in the query match in both samples.  

 For information about calling the sample code, see [Calling Configuration Manager Code Snippets](../../../../develop/core/understand/calling-code-snippets.md).  

```vbs  
Sub ReadErrorStatusMesage(connection)  

    Dim queryWQL  
    Dim message  
    Dim messageSet  
    Dim statusMessage  
    Dim insertionString  
    Dim attributes  

    queryWQL = "SELECT b.Component, b.MachineName, b.MessageType, b.MessageID, " & _  
            "       c.InsStrValue, d.AttributeValue " & _  
            "FROM SMS_StatusMessage b " & _  
            "     JOIN SMS_StatMsgInsStrings c ON b.RecordID = c.RecordID " & _  
            "     JOIN SMS_StatMsgAttributes d ON c.RecordID = d.RecordID " & _  
            "WHERE b.Component = 'MyApplication' " & _  
            "AND   d.AttributeID = 400 " & _  
            "AND   d.AttributeValue = 'MyPackageID' "  

    Set messageSet = connection.ExecQuery(queryWQL)  

    For Each message in messageSet  

        ' Get the message objects.  
        statusMessage = message.Properties_.Item("b")  
        insertionString = message.Properties_.Item("c")  
        attributes = message.Properties_.Item("d")  

        ' Display the message details.  
        WScript.Echo "Message: " + insertionString.Properties_.Item("insstrvalue")  
        WScript.Echo "Component: " + statusMessage.Properties_.Item("Component")  
        WScript.Echo "Computer: " + statusMessage.Properties_.Item("MachineName")  
        WScript.Echo "MessageID: " + Cstr(statusMessage.Properties_.Item("MessageID"))  
        WScript.Echo attributes.Properties_.Item("attributevalue")  
        WScript.Echo  

    Next                          

 End Sub  

```  

```c#  
public void ReadErrorStatusMessage(WqlConnectionManager connection)  
{  
    try  
    {  
        string queryWQL = "SELECT b.Component, b.MachineName, " +  
                "       b.MessageType, b.MessageID, " +  
                "       c.insstrvalue, d.attributevalue " +  
                "FROM SMS_StatusMessage b " +  
                "     JOIN SMS_StatMsgInsStrings c ON b.RecordID = c.RecordID " +  
                "     JOIN SMS_StatMsgAttributes d ON c.RecordID = d.RecordID " +  
                "WHERE b.Component = \"MyApplication\" " +   
                "AND   d.AttributeID = 400 " +  
                "AND   d.AttributeValue = \"MyPackageID\" ";  

        IResultObject query = connection.QueryProcessor.ExecuteQuery(queryWQL);  
        foreach (IResultObject o in query)  
        {  

            ManagementBaseObject  statusMessage = (ManagementBaseObject)o["b"].ObjectValue;  
            ManagementBaseObject insertionString = (ManagementBaseObject)o["c"].ObjectValue;  
            ManagementBaseObject attributes = (ManagementBaseObject)o["d"].ObjectValue;  

            Console.WriteLine("Message: " + insertionString["insstrvalue"]);  
            Console.WriteLine("Component: " + statusMessage["Component"]);  
            Console.WriteLine("Computer: " + statusMessage["MachineName"]);  
            Console.WriteLine("MessageID: " + statusMessage["MessageID"]);  
            Console.WriteLine(attributes["attributevalue"]);  
            Console.WriteLine();  
        }  
    }  
    catch (SmsException ex)  
    {  
        Console.WriteLine("Failed to read status message: ", ex.Message);  
        throw;  
    }  
}  

```  

 The example method has the following parameters:  

|Parameter|Type|Description|  
|---------------|----------|-----------------|  
|`connection`|-   Managed: [WqlConnectionManager](../../understand/managed-sms-provider-fundamentals-in-configuration-manager.md#wqlconnectionmanager)<br />-   VBScript: [SWbemServices](/windows/win32/wmisdk/swbemservices)|A valid connection to the SMS Provider. For more information, see [SMS Provider fundamentals](../../understand/sms-provider-fundamentals.md).|  

## Compiling the Code  
 This C# example requires:  

### Namespaces  
 System  

 System.Collections.Generic  

 System.Text  

 System.Management  

 Microsoft.ConfigurationManagement.ManagementProvider  

 Microsoft.ConfigurationManagement.ManagementProvider.WqlQueryEngine  

### Assembly  
 adminui.wqlqueryengine  

 microsoft.configurationmanagement.managementprovider  

 System.Management  

## Robust Programming  
 For more information about error handling, see [About Configuration Manager Errors](../../../../develop/core/understand/about-configuration-manager-errors.md).  

## .NET Framework Security  
 For more information about securing Configuration Manager applications, see [Configuration Manager role-based administration](../../../../develop/core/servers/configure/role-based-administration.md).  

## See Also  
 [About Configuration Manager Status Messages](../../../../develop/core/servers/manage/about-configuration-manager-status-messages.md)   
 [How to Report User-Defined Status Messages](../../../../develop/core/servers/manage/how-to-report-user-defined-status-messages.md)   
 [SMS_StatusMessage Server WMI Class](../../../../develop/reference/core/servers/manage/sms_statusmessage-server-wmi-class.md)   
 [How To Delete Status Messages](../../../../develop/core/servers/manage/how-to-delete-status-messages.md)
