memdocs/configmgr/develop/reference/compliance/sms_userstatemanagementsettings-server-wmi-class.md, before:

---
title: "SMS_UserStateManagementSettings Class"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
ms.date: "09/20/2016"
ms.prod: "configuration-manager"
ms.technology: configmgr-sdk
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: a61b212b-3981-4dce-a8cd-8ca8f0095142
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: null
ms.collection: openauth


---
# SMS_UserStateManagementSettings Server WMI Class
The `SMS_UserStateManagementSettings` Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) class is an SMS Provider server class, in Configuration Manager, that represents the user state management settings definitions used to define configuration rules. This is a read-only built-in configuration item.  

 User State Management includes Folder Redirection, Offline Files (also known as Client Side Caching), and Roaming User Profiles.  

 The following syntax is simplified from Managed Object Format (MOF) code and includes all inherited properties.  

## Syntax  

```  
Class SMS_UserStateManagementSettings : SMS_SettingsDefinitionBase  
{  
    String ApplicabilityCondition;  
    String CategoryInstance_UniqueIDs[];  
    UInt32 CI_ID;  
    String CI_UniqueID;  
    UInt32 CIType_ID;  
    UInt32 CIVersion;  
    String CreatedBy;  
    DateTime DateCreated;  
    DateTime DateLastModified;  
    DateTime EffectiveDate;  
    UInt32 EULAAccepted;  
    Boolean EULAExists;  
    DateTime EULASignoffDate;  
    String EULASignoffUser;  
    UInt32 ExecutionContext;  
    Boolean IsBroken;  
    Boolean IsBundle;  
    Boolean IsDigest;  
    Boolean IsEnabled;  
    Boolean IsExpired;  
    Boolean IsHidden;  
    Boolean IsLatest;  
    Boolean IsQuarantined;  
    Boolean IsSuperseded;  
    Boolean IsUserDefined;  
    String LastModifiedBy;  
    String LocalizedCategoryInstanceNames[];  
    String LocalizedDescription;  
    String LocalizedDisplayName;  
    SMS_CI_LocalizedEulas LocalizedEulas[];  
    SMS_CI_LocalizedProperties LocalizedInformation[];  
    String LocalizedInformativeURL;  
    UInt32 LocalizedPropertyLocaleID;  
    UInt32 ModelID;  
    String ModelName;  
    UInt32 PermittedUses;  
    String PlatformCategoryInstance_UniqueIDs[];  
    UInt32 PlatformType;  
    SMS_SDMPackageLocalizedData SDMPackageLocalizedData[];  
    UInt32 SDMPackageVersion;  
    String SDMPackageXML;  
    String SecuredScopeNames[];  
    String SedoObjectVersion;  
    String SourceSite;  
};  
```  

## Methods  
 The following table lists the methods in the `SMS_UserStateManagementSettings` class.  

|Method|Description|  
|------------|-----------------|  
|[AcceptEULA Method in Class SMS_UserStateManagementSettings](../../../develop/reference/compliance/accepteula-method-in-class-sms_userstatemanagementsettings.md)|Accepts or declines the Microsoft Software License Terms of a configuration item.|  
|[GetEULA Method in Class SMS_UserStateManagementSettings](../../../develop/reference/compliance/geteula-method-in-class-sms_userstatemanagementsettings.md)|Gets the localized Microsoft Software License Terms content of a configuration item.|  

## Properties  
 `ApplicabilityCondition`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [not_null, sizelimit]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `CategoryInstance_UniqueIDs`  
 Data type: `String Array`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: none  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `CI_ID`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [key, key]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `CI_UniqueID`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [not_null, unique]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `CIType_ID`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [enumeration, not_null, read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `CIVersion`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [not_null, read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `CreatedBy`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [not_null, read, sizelimit]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `DateCreated`  
 Data type: `DateTime`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [not_null, read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `DateLastModified`  
 Data type: `DateTime`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `EffectiveDate`  
 Data type: `DateTime`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `EULAAccepted`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `EULAExists`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `EULASignoffDate`  
 Data type: `DateTime`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `EULASignoffUser`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `ExecutionContext`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read, valuemap, values]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `IsBroken`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [not_null, read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItem Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitem-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `IsBundle`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [not_null]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `IsDigest`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `IsEnabled`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [not_null]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `IsExpired`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [not_null]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `IsHidden`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [not_null]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `IsLatest`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `IsQuarantined`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `IsSuperseded`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [not_null, read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `IsUserDefined`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [not_null]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `LastModifiedBy`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [not_null, read, sizelimit]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `LocalizedCategoryInstanceNames`  
 Data type: `String` Array  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `LocalizedDescription`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `LocalizedDisplayName`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `LocalizedEulas`  
 Data type: `SMS_CI_LocalizedEulas` Array  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [lazy]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItem Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitem-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `LocalizedInformation`  
 Data type: `SMS_CI_LocalizedProperties` Array  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [lazy]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItem Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitem-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `LocalizedInformativeURL`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `LocalizedPropertyLocaleID`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `ModelID`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [not_null]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `ModelName`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [not_null]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `PermittedUses`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [not_null]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `PlatformCategoryInstance_UniqueIDs`  
 Data type: `String Array`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: none  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `PlatformType`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [bitmap, bitvalues, read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `SDMPackageLocalizedData`  
 Data type: `SMS_SDMPackageLocalizedData` Array  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [lazy]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `SDMPackageVersion`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [not_null]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `SDMPackageXML`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [lazy]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `SecuredScopeNames`  
 Data type: `String Array`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `SedoObjectVersion`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `SourceSite`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [sizelimit]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

## Remarks  

## Requirements  

## Runtime Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Server Runtime Requirements](../../../develop/core/reqs/server-runtime-requirements.md).  

## Development Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Server Development Requirements](../../../develop/core/reqs/server-development-requirements.md).  

## See Also  
 [SMS_ConfigurationPolicy Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationpolicy-server-wmi-class.md)

Commit message:

[bulk] validation: fix missing description issues dh2

memdocs/configmgr/develop/reference/compliance/sms_userstatemanagementsettings-server-wmi-class.md, after:

---
title: "SMS_UserStateManagementSettings Class"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
description: "In Configuration Manager, the SMS_UserStateManagementSettings WMI class is an SMS Provider server class that represents the user state management settings definitions used to define configuration rules." 
ms.date: "09/20/2016"
ms.prod: "configuration-manager"
ms.technology: configmgr-sdk
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: a61b212b-3981-4dce-a8cd-8ca8f0095142
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: null
ms.collection: openauth


---
# SMS_UserStateManagementSettings Server WMI Class
The `SMS_UserStateManagementSettings` Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) class is an SMS Provider server class, in Configuration Manager, that represents the user state management settings definitions used to define configuration rules. This is a read-only built-in configuration item.  

 User State Management includes Folder Redirection, Offline Files (also known as Client Side Caching), and Roaming User Profiles.  

 The following syntax is simplified from Managed Object Format (MOF) code and includes all inherited properties.  

## Syntax  

```  
Class SMS_UserStateManagementSettings : SMS_SettingsDefinitionBase  
{  
    String ApplicabilityCondition;  
    String CategoryInstance_UniqueIDs[];  
    UInt32 CI_ID;  
    String CI_UniqueID;  
    UInt32 CIType_ID;  
    UInt32 CIVersion;  
    String CreatedBy;  
    DateTime DateCreated;  
    DateTime DateLastModified;  
    DateTime EffectiveDate;  
    UInt32 EULAAccepted;  
    Boolean EULAExists;  
    DateTime EULASignoffDate;  
    String EULASignoffUser;  
    UInt32 ExecutionContext;  
    Boolean IsBroken;  
    Boolean IsBundle;  
    Boolean IsDigest;  
    Boolean IsEnabled;  
    Boolean IsExpired;  
    Boolean IsHidden;  
    Boolean IsLatest;  
    Boolean IsQuarantined;  
    Boolean IsSuperseded;  
    Boolean IsUserDefined;  
    String LastModifiedBy;  
    String LocalizedCategoryInstanceNames[];  
    String LocalizedDescription;  
    String LocalizedDisplayName;  
    SMS_CI_LocalizedEulas LocalizedEulas[];  
    SMS_CI_LocalizedProperties LocalizedInformation[];  
    String LocalizedInformativeURL;  
    UInt32 LocalizedPropertyLocaleID;  
    UInt32 ModelID;  
    String ModelName;  
    UInt32 PermittedUses;  
    String PlatformCategoryInstance_UniqueIDs[];  
    UInt32 PlatformType;  
    SMS_SDMPackageLocalizedData SDMPackageLocalizedData[];  
    UInt32 SDMPackageVersion;  
    String SDMPackageXML;  
    String SecuredScopeNames[];  
    String SedoObjectVersion;  
    String SourceSite;  
};  
```  

## Methods  
 The following table lists the methods in the `SMS_UserStateManagementSettings` class.  

|Method|Description|  
|------------|-----------------|  
|[AcceptEULA Method in Class SMS_UserStateManagementSettings](../../../develop/reference/compliance/accepteula-method-in-class-sms_userstatemanagementsettings.md)|Accepts or declines the Microsoft Software License Terms of a configuration item.|  
|[GetEULA Method in Class SMS_UserStateManagementSettings](../../../develop/reference/compliance/geteula-method-in-class-sms_userstatemanagementsettings.md)|Gets the localized Microsoft Software License Terms content of a configuration item.|  

## Properties  
 `ApplicabilityCondition`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [not_null, sizelimit]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `CategoryInstance_UniqueIDs`  
 Data type: `String Array`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: none  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `CI_ID`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [key, key]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `CI_UniqueID`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [not_null, unique]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `CIType_ID`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [enumeration, not_null, read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `CIVersion`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [not_null, read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `CreatedBy`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [not_null, read, sizelimit]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `DateCreated`  
 Data type: `DateTime`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [not_null, read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `DateLastModified`  
 Data type: `DateTime`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `EffectiveDate`  
 Data type: `DateTime`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `EULAAccepted`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `EULAExists`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `EULASignoffDate`  
 Data type: `DateTime`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `EULASignoffUser`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `ExecutionContext`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read, valuemap, values]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `IsBroken`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [not_null, read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItem Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitem-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `IsBundle`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [not_null]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `IsDigest`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `IsEnabled`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [not_null]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `IsExpired`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [not_null]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `IsHidden`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [not_null]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `IsLatest`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `IsQuarantined`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `IsSuperseded`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [not_null, read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `IsUserDefined`  
 Data type: `Boolean`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [not_null]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `LastModifiedBy`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [not_null, read, sizelimit]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `LocalizedCategoryInstanceNames`  
 Data type: `String` Array  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `LocalizedDescription`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `LocalizedDisplayName`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `LocalizedEulas`  
 Data type: `SMS_CI_LocalizedEulas` Array  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [lazy]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItem Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitem-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `LocalizedInformation`  
 Data type: `SMS_CI_LocalizedProperties` Array  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [lazy]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItem Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitem-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `LocalizedInformativeURL`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `LocalizedPropertyLocaleID`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `ModelID`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [not_null]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `ModelName`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [not_null]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `PermittedUses`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [not_null]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `PlatformCategoryInstance_UniqueIDs`  
 Data type: `String Array`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: none  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `PlatformType`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [bitmap, bitvalues, read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `SDMPackageLocalizedData`  
 Data type: `SMS_SDMPackageLocalizedData` Array  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [lazy]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `SDMPackageVersion`  
 Data type: `UInt32`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [not_null]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `SDMPackageXML`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [lazy]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `SecuredScopeNames`  
 Data type: `String Array`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `SedoObjectVersion`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read-only  

 Qualifiers: [read]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

 `SourceSite`  
 Data type: `String`  

 Access type: Read/Write  

 Qualifiers: [sizelimit]  

 See [SMS_ConfigurationItemLatestBaseClass Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationitemlatestbaseclass-server-wmi-class.md).  

## Remarks  

## Requirements  

## Runtime Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Server Runtime Requirements](../../../develop/core/reqs/server-runtime-requirements.md).  

## Development Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Server Development Requirements](../../../develop/core/reqs/server-development-requirements.md).  

## See Also  
 [SMS_ConfigurationPolicy Server WMI Class](../../../develop/reference/compliance/sms_configurationpolicy-server-wmi-class.md)
