---
title: Cloud management gateway VMSS image update for Microsoft Configuration Manager
description: Cloud management gateway VMSS image update for Configuration Manager versions 2603, 2509, 2503, and 2409
ms.date: 06/02/2026
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.topic: reference
---

# Cloud management gateway VMSS image update for Microsoft Configuration Manager

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, versions 2603 and 2509, and versions 2503 and 2409 with update rollup installed)*

## Summary of KB37784287
<!-- 37784287 -->
An update is available to resolve the following issue for Configuration Manager customers using the cloud management gateway (CMG) component.

The legacy Windows Server 2022 Azure Marketplace images (offer: `windowsserver`) that include .NET 6 are being deprecated. Cloud management gateway deployments that use Azure Virtual Machine Scale Sets (VMSS) reference these legacy images.

After the deprecation begins, the legacy images will no longer be compliant or supported, and will not receive new OS patch updates via image refresh. Once enforcement begins in early 2027, new CMG deployments and reimaging operations that reference the legacy images will fail.

This update transitions the CMG/VMSS to use the new Windows Server 2022 image offer (`windowsserver2022`) that does not include the deprecated .NET 6 packages. For more details on the deprecation timeline and impact, see [Breaking change for Window Server 2022 Image Users with .NET 6](https://aka.ms/KB37784287_IMGDep).

> [!NOTE]
> This same update is included with the second update rollup for Configuration Manager version 2509 ([KB 37864969](../../hotfix/2509/37864969.md)). A separate out of band hotfix is not required for version 2509.

### Update information for Microsoft Configuration Manager current branch

This update is available in the Updates and Servicing node of the Configuration Manager console for environments running version 2603 directly, or for versions 2503 and 2409 with the following update rollups installed:

- KB [32851084](../../hotfix/2503/32851084.md): Update rollup for Microsoft Configuration Manager current branch, version 2503
- KB [30385346](../../hotfix/2409/30385346.md): Update rollup for Microsoft Configuration Manager current branch, version 2409

### Restart information

This update doesn't require a computer restart or a [site reset](../../core/servers/manage/modify-your-infrastructure.md#bkmk_reset) after installation.

### Additional installation information

After you install this update on a primary site, preexisting secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. This reinstallation doesn't affect configurations and settings for the secondary site. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:
   ```sql
   select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
   ```
If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.

If the value 0 is returned, all the fixes that are applied to the primary site aren't installed for the secondary site. You should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.

## File information
File information is available in the following downloadable text files.

<!-- TODO: Add file list links when available -->

## Version information

<!-- TODO: Add version information when available -->

## Release history
- June 2, 2026: Initial hotfix release

## References
- [Updates and servicing for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/updates.md)
- [Breaking change for Window Server 2022 Image Users with .NET 6](https://aka.ms/KB37784287_IMGDep)
