memdocs/configmgr/develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/ccm_policy_config-client-wmi-class.md, before:

---
title: "CCM_Policy_Config Class"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
ms.date: "09/20/2016"
ms.prod: "configuration-manager"
ms.technology: configmgr-sdk
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 46196816-b705-429d-b646-fd8d1a0688e8
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: null
ms.collection: openauth


---
# CCM_Policy_Config Client WMI Class
In Configuration Manager, the `CCM_Policy_Config` class is a client Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) class that represents a policy configuration used by the Policy Agent that needs to be replicated. `CCM_Policy_Config` is an abstract class.  

 The following syntax is simplified from Managed Object Format (MOF) code and includes all inherited properties.  

## Syntax  

```  
Class CCM_Policy_Config  
{  
};  
```  

## Methods  
 The `CCM_Policy_Config` class does not define any methods.  

## Properties  
 None.  

## Requirements  

## Runtime Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Client Runtime Requirements](../../../../../develop/core/reqs/client-runtime-requirements.md).  

## Development Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Client Development Requirements](../../../../../develop/core/reqs/client-development-requirements.md).  

## See Also  
 [Policy Agent Client WMI Classes](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/policy-agent-client-wmi-classes.md)

Commit message:

[Bulk] Validation: Fix missing description in metadata 3/31

memdocs/configmgr/develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/ccm_policy_config-client-wmi-class.md, after:

---
title: "CCM_Policy_Config Class"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
description: "In Configuration Manager, the CCM_Policy_Config class is a client WMI class that represents a policy configuration used by the Policy Agent that needs to be replicated."
ms.date: "09/20/2016"
ms.prod: "configuration-manager"
ms.technology: configmgr-sdk
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 46196816-b705-429d-b646-fd8d1a0688e8
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: null
ms.collection: openauth


---
# CCM_Policy_Config Client WMI Class
In Configuration Manager, the `CCM_Policy_Config` class is a client Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) class that represents a policy configuration used by the Policy Agent that needs to be replicated. `CCM_Policy_Config` is an abstract class.  

 The following syntax is simplified from Managed Object Format (MOF) code and includes all inherited properties.  

## Syntax  

```  
Class CCM_Policy_Config  
{  
};  
```  

## Methods  
 The `CCM_Policy_Config` class does not define any methods.  

## Properties  
 None.  

## Requirements  

## Runtime Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Client Runtime Requirements](../../../../../develop/core/reqs/client-runtime-requirements.md).  

## Development Requirements  
 For more information, see [Configuration Manager Client Development Requirements](../../../../../develop/core/reqs/client-development-requirements.md).  

## See Also  
 [Policy Agent Client WMI Classes](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/policy-agent-client-wmi-classes.md)
