memdocs/configmgr/develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/client-framework-and-data-transfer-client-wmi-classes.md, before:

---
title: "Client Framework and Data Transfer Classes"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
ms.date: "09/20/2016"
ms.prod: "configuration-manager"
ms.technology: configmgr-sdk
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 939d7728-0e5c-4d98-8a70-0ffcfe41f479
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: null
ms.collection: openauth


---
# Client Framework and Data Transfer Client WMI Classes
This section describes the Client Configuration Manager (CCM) framework and data transfer classes in Configuration Manager for the client.  

## In This Section  
 [CCM_Messaging_Configuration Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/ccm_messaging_configuration-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Supports messaging-related settings that are exposed to administrators.  

 [CCM_Service_BITSConfiguration Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/ccm_service_bitsconfiguration-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Supports Background Intelligent Transfer Service (BITS)-related settings used by CCMEXEC for uploading and downloading message payloads.  

 [CCM_Service_EndpointConfiguration Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/ccm_service_endpointconfiguration-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Supports endpoint configuration for the CCMEXEC service.  

 [CCM_Service_GlobalConfiguration Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/ccm_service_globalconfiguration-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Supports global configuration for the CCMEXEC service.  

 [CCM_Service_HostedClass Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/ccm_service_hostedclass-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Configures a COM class to be hosted in the CCMEXEC service.  

 [CCM_Service_IISConfiguration Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/ccm_service_iisconfiguration-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Supports Internet Information Services (IIS)-related settings used by CCMEXEC for staging and receiving message payloads.  

 [CCM_Service_SystemTaskConfiguration Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/ccm_service_systemtaskconfiguration-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Supports system task configuration for the CCMEXEC service.  

 [SMS_Authority Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/sms_authority-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Represents the client authority that manages the client.  

 [SMS_Client Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/sms_client-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Represents the client and facilitates manipulation and retrieval of client information.  

 [SMS_LocalMP Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/sms_localmp-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Represents the local management point.  

 [SMS_MPProxyInformation Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/sms_mpproxyinformation-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Represents information about a proxy management point.  

 [SMS_PendingReRegistrationOnSiteReAssignment Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/sms_pendingreregistrationonsitereassignment-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Represents a pending re-registration at the time of site reassignment.  

## See Also  
 [Configuration Manager Client Infrastructure](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/client-infrastructure.md)

Commit message:

[bulk] validation: fix missing description issues dh2

memdocs/configmgr/develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/client-framework-and-data-transfer-client-wmi-classes.md, after:

---
title: "Client Framework and Data Transfer Classes"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
description: "This section describes the CCM framework and data transfer classes in Configuration Manager for the client."  
ms.date: "09/20/2016"
ms.prod: "configuration-manager"
ms.technology: configmgr-sdk
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 939d7728-0e5c-4d98-8a70-0ffcfe41f479
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: null
ms.collection: openauth


---
# Client Framework and Data Transfer Client WMI Classes
This section describes the Client Configuration Manager (CCM) framework and data transfer classes in Configuration Manager for the client.  

## In This Section  
 [CCM_Messaging_Configuration Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/ccm_messaging_configuration-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Supports messaging-related settings that are exposed to administrators.  

 [CCM_Service_BITSConfiguration Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/ccm_service_bitsconfiguration-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Supports Background Intelligent Transfer Service (BITS)-related settings used by CCMEXEC for uploading and downloading message payloads.  

 [CCM_Service_EndpointConfiguration Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/ccm_service_endpointconfiguration-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Supports endpoint configuration for the CCMEXEC service.  

 [CCM_Service_GlobalConfiguration Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/ccm_service_globalconfiguration-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Supports global configuration for the CCMEXEC service.  

 [CCM_Service_HostedClass Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/ccm_service_hostedclass-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Configures a COM class to be hosted in the CCMEXEC service.  

 [CCM_Service_IISConfiguration Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/ccm_service_iisconfiguration-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Supports Internet Information Services (IIS)-related settings used by CCMEXEC for staging and receiving message payloads.  

 [CCM_Service_SystemTaskConfiguration Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/ccm_service_systemtaskconfiguration-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Supports system task configuration for the CCMEXEC service.  

 [SMS_Authority Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/sms_authority-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Represents the client authority that manages the client.  

 [SMS_Client Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/sms_client-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Represents the client and facilitates manipulation and retrieval of client information.  

 [SMS_LocalMP Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/sms_localmp-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Represents the local management point.  

 [SMS_MPProxyInformation Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/sms_mpproxyinformation-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Represents information about a proxy management point.  

 [SMS_PendingReRegistrationOnSiteReAssignment Client WMI Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/sms_pendingreregistrationonsitereassignment-client-wmi-class.md)  
 Represents a pending re-registration at the time of site reassignment.  

## See Also  
 [Configuration Manager Client Infrastructure](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/client-infrastructure.md)
