memdocs/configmgr/develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/operating-system-deployment-client-com-automation-classes.md, before:

---
title: "OS Deployment Client COM Automation Classes"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
ms.date: "09/20/2016"
ms.prod: "configuration-manager"
ms.technology: configmgr-sdk
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: b341d3e6-8015-4718-b628-020e5a5d4914
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: null
ms.collection: openauth


---
# Operating System Deployment Client COM Automation Classes
This section provides reference content for the operating system deployment task client COM automation classes in Configuration Manager.  

## In This Section  

|Term|Definition|  
|----------|----------------|  
|[ProgressUI Client COM Automation Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/progressui-client-com-automation-class.md)|Represents a user interface that custom actions use to report progress to the Configuration Manager operating system deployment task sequencing environment.|  
|[PXEAuthClass Client COM Automation Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/pxeauthclass-client-com-automation-class.md)|Supports PXE service point authorization in operating system deployment.|  
|[ITSEnvClass Interface](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/itsenvclass-interface.md)|Represents the operating system deployment task sequencing environment in Configuration Manager.|  

## See also

[OS deployment client COM automation classes](operating-system-deployment-client-com-automation-classes.md)

Commit message:

[bulk] validation: fix missing description issues dh2

memdocs/configmgr/develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/operating-system-deployment-client-com-automation-classes.md, after:

---
title: "OS Deployment Client COM Automation Classes"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
description: "This section provides reference content for the operating system deployment task client COM automation classes in Configuration Manager."
ms.date: "09/20/2016"
ms.prod: "configuration-manager"
ms.technology: configmgr-sdk
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: b341d3e6-8015-4718-b628-020e5a5d4914
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: null
ms.collection: openauth


---
# Operating System Deployment Client COM Automation Classes
This section provides reference content for the operating system deployment task client COM automation classes in Configuration Manager.  

## In This Section  

|Term|Definition|  
|----------|----------------|  
|[ProgressUI Client COM Automation Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/progressui-client-com-automation-class.md)|Represents a user interface that custom actions use to report progress to the Configuration Manager operating system deployment task sequencing environment.|  
|[PXEAuthClass Client COM Automation Class](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/pxeauthclass-client-com-automation-class.md)|Supports PXE service point authorization in operating system deployment.|  
|[ITSEnvClass Interface](../../../../../develop/reference/core/clients/client-classes/itsenvclass-interface.md)|Represents the operating system deployment task sequencing environment in Configuration Manager.|  

## See also

[OS deployment client COM automation classes](operating-system-deployment-client-com-automation-classes.md)
