memdocs/intune/protect/endpoint-security-policy.md, before:

---
# required metadata

title: Manage endpoint security policies in Microsoft Intune | Microsoft Docs
description: Security Administrators can use the Endpoint Security policies and profiles to focus on security configuration of devices in Microsoft Intune. 
keywords:
author: brenduns
ms.author: brenduns
manager: dougeby
ms.date: 04/14/2022
ms.topic: how-to
ms.service: microsoft-intune
ms.subservice: protect
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.technology:

# optional metadata

#ROBOTS:
#audience:
#ms.devlang:
ms.suite: ems
search.appverid: MET150
#ms.tgt_pltfrm:
ms.custom: intune-azure
ms.collection:
- tier2
- M365-identity-device-management
- highpri
ms.reviewer: mattcall

---

# Manage device security with endpoint security policies in Microsoft Intune

Use Intune endpoint security policies to manage security settings on devices. Each endpoint security policy supports one or more profiles. These profiles are similar in concept to a device configuration policy template, a logical group of related settings.

As a security admin concerned with device security, you can use these security-focused profiles to avoid the overhead of device configuration profiles or security baselines. Device configuration profiles and baselines include a large body of diverse settings outside the scope of securing endpoints. In contrast, each endpoint security profile focuses on a specific subset of device settings intended to configure one aspect of device security.

When using endpoint security policies along side other policy types like security baselines or endpoint protection templates from device configuration policies, it’s important to develop a plan for using multiple policy types to minimize the risk of conflicting settings. Security baselines, device configuration policies, and endpoint security policies are all treated as equal sources of device configuration settings by Intune. A settings conflict occurs when a device receives two different configurations for a setting from multiple sources. Multiple sources can include separate policy types and multiple instances of the same policy.

When Intune evaluates policy for a device and identifies conflicting configurations for a setting, the setting that's involved can be flagged for an error or conflict and fail to apply. Each type of configuration policy supports identifying and resolving conflicts should they arise:

- [Device configuration profiles](../configuration/device-profile-monitor.md#view-conflicts)
- [Endpoint security profiles](#manage-conflicts)
- [Security baselines](../protect/security-baselines-monitor.md#resolve-conflicts-for-security-baselines)

You'll find endpoint security policies under *Manage* in the **Endpoint security** node of the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).

:::image type="content" source="./media/endpoint-security-policy/endpoint-security-policies.png" alt-text="Managing Endpoint security policies in the Microsoft Intune admin center":::

Following are brief descriptions of each endpoint security policy type. To learn more about them, including the available profiles for each, follow the links to content dedicated to each policy type:

- [Antivirus](../protect/endpoint-security-antivirus-policy.md) - Antivirus policies help security admins focus on managing the discrete group of antivirus settings for managed devices. 

- [Disk encryption](../protect/endpoint-security-disk-encryption-policy.md) - Endpoint security Disk encryption profiles focus on only the settings that are relevant for a devices built-in encryption method, like FileVault or BitLocker. This focus makes it easy for security admins to manage disk encryption settings without having to navigate a host of unrelated settings.

- [Firewall](../protect/endpoint-security-firewall-policy.md) - Use the endpoint security Firewall policy in Intune to configure a devices built-in firewall for devices that run macOS and Windows 10/11.

- [Endpoint detection and response](../protect/endpoint-security-edr-policy.md) - When you integrate Microsoft Defender for Endpoint with Intune, use the endpoint security policies for endpoint detection and response (EDR) to manage the EDR settings and onboard devices to Microsoft Defender for Endpoint.

- [Attack surface reduction](../protect/endpoint-security-asr-policy.md) - When Defender antivirus is in use on your Windows 10/11 devices, use Intune endpoint security policies for Attack surface reduction to manage those settings for your devices.

- [Account protection](../protect/endpoint-security-account-protection-policy.md) - Account protection policies help you protect the identity and accounts of your users. The account protection policy is focused on settings for  Windows Hello and Credential Guard, which is part of Windows identity and access management.

The following sections apply to all of the endpoint security policies.

## Create an endpoint security policy

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).

2. Select **Endpoint security** and then select the type of policy you want to configure, and then select **Create Policy**. Choose from the following policy types:
   - Antivirus
   - Disk encryption
   - Firewall
   - Endpoint detection and response
   - Attack surface reduction
   - Account protection

3. Enter the following properties:
   - **Platform**: Choose the platform that you're creating policy for. The available options depend on the policy type you select.
   - **Profile**: Choose from the available profiles for the platform you selected. For information about the profiles, see the dedicated section in this article for your chosen policy type.

4. Select **Create**.

5. On the **Basics** page, enter a name and description for the profile, then choose **Next**.

6. On the **Configuration settings** page, expand each group of settings, and configure the settings you want to manage with this profile.

   When your done configuring settings, select **Next**.

7. On the **Scope tags** page, choose **Select scope tags** to open the *Select tags* pane to assign scope tags to the profile.
  
   Select **Next** to continue.

8. On the **Assignments** page, select the groups that will receive this profile. For more information on assigning profiles, see [Assign user and device profiles](../configuration/device-profile-assign.md).

   Select **Next**.

9. On the **Review + create** page, when you're done, choose **Create**. The new profile is displayed in the list when you select the policy type for the profile you created.

## Duplicate a policy

Endpoint security policies support duplication to create a copy of the original policy. A scenario when duplicating a policy is useful, is if you need to assign similar policies to different groups but don't want to manually recreate the entire policy. Instead, you can duplicate the original policy and then introduce only the changes the new policy requires. You might only change a specific setting and the group the policy is assigned to.

When creating a duplicate, you'll give the copy a new name. The copy is made with the same setting configurations and scope tags as the original, but won't have any assignments. You'll need to edit the new policy later to create assignments.  

The following policy types support duplication:

- Antivirus
- Disk encryption
- Firewall
- Endpoint detection and response
- Attack surface reduction
- Account protection

After creating the new policy, review and edit the policy to make changes to its configuration.

### To duplicate a policy

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).
2. Select the policy that you want to copy. Next, select **Duplicate** or select the ellipsis (**…**) to the right of the policy and select **Duplicate**.
3. Provide a **New name** for the policy, and then select **Save**.

### To edit a policy

1. Select the new policy, and then select **Properties**.
2. Select Settings to expand a list of the configuration settings in the policy. You can’t modify the settings from this view, but you can review how they're configured.
3. To modify the policy, select **Edit** for each category where you want to make a change:
   - Basics
   - Assignments
   - Scope tags
   - Configuration settings
4. After you’ve made changes, select **Save** to save your edits.  Edits to one category must be saved before you can introduce edits to additional categories.

## Manage conflicts

Many of the device settings that you can manage with Endpoint security policies (security policies) are also available through other policy types in Intune. These other policy types include *device configuration* policy and *security baselines*. Because settings can be managed through several different policy types or by multiple instances of the same policy type, be prepared to identify and resolve policy conflicts for devices that don't adhere to the configurations you expect.

- Security baselines can set a non-default value for a setting to comply with the recommended configuration that baseline addresses.
- Other policy types, including the endpoint security policies, set a value of *Not configured* by default. These other policy types require you to explicitly configure settings in the policy.

Regardless of the policy method, managing the same setting on the same device through multiple policy types, or through multiple instances of the same policy type can result in conflicts that should be avoided.

The information at the following links can help you identify and resolve conflicts:

- [Troubleshoot policies and profiles in Intune](/troubleshoot/mem/intune/troubleshoot-policies-in-microsoft-intune)
- [Monitor your security baselines](../protect/security-baselines-monitor.md#troubleshoot-using-per-setting-status)

## Next steps

[Manage endpoint security in Intune](../protect/endpoint-security.md)

Commit message:

Main content for App Control policy

memdocs/intune/protect/endpoint-security-policy.md, after:

---
# required metadata

title: Manage endpoint security policies in Microsoft Intune | Microsoft Docs
description: Security Administrators can use the Endpoint Security policies and profiles to focus on security configuration of devices in Microsoft Intune. 
keywords:
author: brenduns
ms.author: brenduns
manager: dougeby
ms.date: 06/19/2023
ms.topic: how-to
ms.service: microsoft-intune
ms.subservice: protect
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.technology:

# optional metadata

#ROBOTS:
#audience:
#ms.devlang:
ms.suite: ems
search.appverid: MET150
#ms.tgt_pltfrm:
ms.custom: intune-azure
ms.collection:
- tier2
- M365-identity-device-management
- highpri
ms.reviewer: mattcall

---

# Manage device security with endpoint security policies in Microsoft Intune

Use Intune endpoint security policies to manage security settings on devices. Each endpoint security policy supports one or more profiles. These profiles are similar in concept to a device configuration policy template, a logical group of related settings.

As a security admin concerned with device security, you can use these security-focused profiles to avoid the overhead of device configuration profiles or security baselines. Device configuration profiles and baselines include a large body of diverse settings outside the scope of securing endpoints. In contrast, each endpoint security profile focuses on a specific subset of device settings intended to configure one aspect of device security.

When using endpoint security policies along side other policy types like security baselines or endpoint protection templates from device configuration policies, it’s important to develop a plan for using multiple policy types to minimize the risk of conflicting settings. Security baselines, device configuration policies, and endpoint security policies are all treated as equal sources of device configuration settings by Intune. A settings conflict occurs when a device receives two different configurations for a setting from multiple sources. Multiple sources can include separate policy types and multiple instances of the same policy.

When Intune evaluates policy for a device and identifies conflicting configurations for a setting, the setting that's involved can be flagged for an error or conflict and fail to apply. Each type of configuration policy supports identifying and resolving conflicts should they arise:

- [Device configuration profiles](../configuration/device-profile-monitor.md#view-conflicts)
- [Endpoint security profiles](#manage-conflicts)
- [Security baselines](../protect/security-baselines-monitor.md#resolve-conflicts-for-security-baselines)

You'll find endpoint security policies under *Manage* in the **Endpoint security** node of the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).

:::image type="content" source="./media/endpoint-security-policy/endpoint-security-policies.png" alt-text="Managing Endpoint security policies in the Microsoft Intune admin center":::

Following are brief descriptions of each endpoint security policy type. To learn more about them, including the available profiles for each, follow the links to content dedicated to each policy type:

- [Account protection](../protect/endpoint-security-account-protection-policy.md) - Account protection policies help you protect the identity and accounts of your users. The account protection policy is focused on settings for  Windows Hello and Credential Guard, which is part of Windows identity and access management.

- [Antivirus](../protect/endpoint-security-antivirus-policy.md) - Antivirus policies help security admins focus on managing the discrete group of antivirus settings for managed devices.

- [Application Control (Preview)](../protect/endpoint-security-app-control-policy.md) - Manage approved apps for Windows devices with Application Control policy and Managed Installers for Microsoft Intune. Intune Application Control policies are an implementation of Windows Defender Application Control (WDAC).

- [Attack surface reduction](../protect/endpoint-security-asr-policy.md) - When Defender antivirus is in use on your Windows 10/11 devices, use Intune endpoint security policies for Attack surface reduction to manage those settings for your devices.

- [Disk encryption](../protect/endpoint-security-disk-encryption-policy.md) - Endpoint security Disk encryption profiles focus on only the settings that are relevant for a devices built-in encryption method, like FileVault or BitLocker. This focus makes it easy for security admins to manage disk encryption settings without having to navigate a host of unrelated settings.

- [Endpoint detection and response](../protect/endpoint-security-edr-policy.md) - When you integrate Microsoft Defender for Endpoint with Intune, use the endpoint security policies for endpoint detection and response (EDR) to manage the EDR settings and onboard devices to Microsoft Defender for Endpoint.

- [Firewall](../protect/endpoint-security-firewall-policy.md) - Use the endpoint security Firewall policy in Intune to configure a devices built-in firewall for devices that run macOS and Windows 10/11.

The following sections apply to all of the endpoint security policies.

## Create an endpoint security policy

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).

2. Select **Endpoint security** and then select the type of policy you want to configure, and then select **Create Policy**. Choose from the following policy types:
   - Account protection
   - Antivirus
   - Application control (Preview)
   - Attack surface reduction
   - Disk encryption
   - Endpoint detection and response
   - Firewall

3. Enter the following properties:
   - **Platform**: Choose the platform that you're creating policy for. The available options depend on the policy type you select.
   - **Profile**: Choose from the available profiles for the platform you selected. For information about the profiles, see the dedicated section in this article for your chosen policy type.

4. Select **Create**.

5. On the **Basics** page, enter a name and description for the profile, then choose **Next**.

6. On the **Configuration settings** page, expand each group of settings, and configure the settings you want to manage with this profile.

   When your done configuring settings, select **Next**.

7. On the **Scope tags** page, choose **Select scope tags** to open the *Select tags* pane to assign scope tags to the profile.
  
   Select **Next** to continue.

8. On the **Assignments** page, select the groups that will receive this profile. For more information on assigning profiles, see [Assign user and device profiles](../configuration/device-profile-assign.md).

   Select **Next**.

9. On the **Review + create** page, when you're done, choose **Create**. The new profile is displayed in the list when you select the policy type for the profile you created.

## Duplicate a policy

Endpoint security policies support duplication to create a copy of the original policy. A scenario when duplicating a policy is useful, is if you need to assign similar policies to different groups but don't want to manually recreate the entire policy. Instead, you can duplicate the original policy and then introduce only the changes the new policy requires. You might only change a specific setting and the group the policy is assigned to.

When creating a duplicate, you'll give the copy a new name. The copy is made with the same setting configurations and scope tags as the original, but won't have any assignments. You'll need to edit the new policy later to create assignments.  

The following policy types support duplication:

- Antivirus
- Disk encryption
- Firewall
- Endpoint detection and response
- Attack surface reduction
- Account protection

After creating the new policy, review and edit the policy to make changes to its configuration.

### To duplicate a policy

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).
2. Select the policy that you want to copy. Next, select **Duplicate** or select the ellipsis (**…**) to the right of the policy and select **Duplicate**.
3. Provide a **New name** for the policy, and then select **Save**.

### To edit a policy

1. Select the new policy, and then select **Properties**.
2. Select Settings to expand a list of the configuration settings in the policy. You can’t modify the settings from this view, but you can review how they're configured.
3. To modify the policy, select **Edit** for each category where you want to make a change:
   - Basics
   - Assignments
   - Scope tags
   - Configuration settings
4. After you’ve made changes, select **Save** to save your edits.  Edits to one category must be saved before you can introduce edits to additional categories.

## Manage conflicts

Many of the device settings that you can manage with Endpoint security policies (security policies) are also available through other policy types in Intune. These other policy types include *device configuration* policy and *security baselines*. Because settings can be managed through several different policy types or by multiple instances of the same policy type, be prepared to identify and resolve policy conflicts for devices that don't adhere to the configurations you expect.

- Security baselines can set a non-default value for a setting to comply with the recommended configuration that baseline addresses.
- Other policy types, including the endpoint security policies, set a value of *Not configured* by default. These other policy types require you to explicitly configure settings in the policy.

Regardless of the policy method, managing the same setting on the same device through multiple policy types, or through multiple instances of the same policy type can result in conflicts that should be avoided.

The information at the following links can help you identify and resolve conflicts:

- [Troubleshoot policies and profiles in Intune](/troubleshoot/mem/intune/troubleshoot-policies-in-microsoft-intune)
- [Monitor your security baselines](../protect/security-baselines-monitor.md#troubleshoot-using-per-setting-status)

## Next steps

[Manage endpoint security in Intune](../protect/endpoint-security.md)
