memdocs/intune/protect/epm-guidance-for-creating-rules.md, before:

---
title: Guidance for creating elevation rules with Endpoint Privilege Management
description: View guidance on the how to create strong rules with Endpoint Privilege Management
keywords:
author: brenduns
ms.author: brenduns
manager: dougeby
ms.date: 03/20/2023
ms.topic: how-to
ms.service: microsoft-intune
ms.subservice: protect
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.technology:

# optional metadata

#ROBOTS:
#audience:
 
ms.reviewer: mattcall
ms.suite: ems
search.appverid: MET150
#ms.tgt_pltfrm:
ms.custom: intune-azure
ms.collection:
- tier 1
- M365-identity-device-management
---

# Guidance for creating elevation rules with Endpoint Privilege Management

<!-- [!INCLUDE [intune-add-on-note](../includes/intune-add-on-note.md)] -->
> [!NOTE]  
> This capability is in public preview and available to use without a license. After public preview, it will be available as an Intune add-on. For more information, see [Use Intune Suite add-on capabilities](../fundamentals/intune-add-ons.md).

## Next steps
[Learn about Endpoint Privilege Management](../protect/epm-overview.md)

Commit message:

Modification of the overview paragraph

memdocs/intune/protect/epm-guidance-for-creating-rules.md, after:

---
title: Guidance for creating elevation rules with Endpoint Privilege Management
description: View guidance on the how to create strong rules with Endpoint Privilege Management
keywords:
author: brenduns
ms.author: brenduns
manager: dougeby
ms.date: 03/20/2023
ms.topic: how-to
ms.service: microsoft-intune
ms.subservice: protect
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.technology:

# optional metadata

#ROBOTS:
#audience:
 
ms.reviewer: mattcall
ms.suite: ems
search.appverid: MET150
#ms.tgt_pltfrm:
ms.custom: intune-azure
ms.collection:
- tier 1
- M365-identity-device-management
---

# Guidance for creating elevation rules with Endpoint Privilege Management

<!-- [!INCLUDE [intune-add-on-note](../includes/intune-add-on-note.md)] -->
> [!NOTE]  
> This capability is in public preview and available to use without a license. After public preview, it will be available as an Intune add-on. For more information, see [Use Intune Suite add-on capabilities](../fundamentals/intune-add-ons.md).

## Overview

Microsoft Intune Endpoint Privilege Management (EPM) allows your organization’s users to run as a standard user (without administrator rights) and complete tasks that require elevated privileges.

Tasks that commonly require administrative privileges are application installs (like Microsoft 365 Applications), updating device drivers, and running certain Windows diagnostics.

Endpoint Privilege Management supports your zero-trust journey by helping your organization achieve a broad user base running with least privilege, while allowing users to still run tasks allowed by your organization to remain productive.

## Next steps
[Learn about Endpoint Privilege Management](../protect/epm-overview.md)
