memdocs/intune/protect/microsoft-tunnel-monitor.md, before:

---
title: Monitor the status of the Microsoft Tunnel VPN solution for Microsoft Intune
description: Monitor the status of Microsoft Tunnel Gateway, a VPN server that runs on Linux. With the Microsoft Tunnel, cloud-based devices you manage with Intune can reach your on-premises infrastructure. 
keywords:
author: brenduns
ms.author: brenduns
manager: dougeby
ms.date: 08/23/2021
ms.topic: how-to
ms.service: microsoft-intune
ms.subservice: protect
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.technology:

# optional metadata

#ROBOTS:
#audience:

ms.reviewer: ochukwunyere
ms.suite: ems
search.appverid: MET150
#ms.tgt_pltfrm:
ms.custom: intune-azure
ms.collection: M365-identity-device-management
---

# Monitor Microsoft Tunnel

After installation of Microsoft Tunnel, you can view the server configuration and server health in the Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center (endpoint.microsoft.com).  

## Use the admin center UI

Sign in to [Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431), and go to **Tenant administration** > **Microsoft Tunnel Gateway** > **Health status**.

Select a server and then open the **Health check** tab to view that servers health status metrics. By default, each metric uses predefined threshold values that determine the status. The following metrics [support customization of these thresholds](#manage-health-status-thresholds):

- CPU usage
- Memory usage
- Disk space usage
- Latency

Default values for server health metrics:

- **Last check-in** – When the Tunnel Gateway server last checked in with Intune.
  - *Healthy* – The last check-in was within the last five minutes.
  - *Unhealthy* – More than five minutes have passed since the last check-in.

- **Current connections** – The number of unique connections that were active at the last server check-in.
  - *Healthy* – There were 4,990 or fewer connections
  - *Unhealthy* – There were more than 4,990 active connections

- **Throughput** – The megabits bits per second of traffic passing through the Tunnel Gateway NIC at the last server check-in.

- **CPU usage** – The average CPU use by the Tunnel Gateway server every five minutes.
  - *Healthy* - 95% or less
  - *Warning* - 96% to 99%
  - *Unhealthy* - 100% use

- **Memory usage** – The average memory use by the Tunnel Gateway server every 5 minutes.
  - *Healthy* - 95% or less
  - *Warning* - 96% to 99%
  - *Unhealthy* - 100% use

- **Latency** – The average amount of time it takes for IP packets to arrive and then exit the network interface.
  - *Healthy* - Less than 10 milliseconds
  - *Warning* - 10 milliseconds to 20 milliseconds
  - *Unhealthy* - More than 20 milliseconds

- **TLS certificate** - The number of days until the TLS certificate that secures traffic between clients and the Tunnel Gateway server will expire.
  - *Healthy* - More than 30 days
  - *Warning* - 30 days or less
  - *Unhealthy* - The certificate is expired

- **Internal network accessibility** – Status from the most recent check of the internal URL. You configure the URL as part of a [Tunnel Site configuration](../protect/microsoft-tunnel-configure.md#to-create-a-site-configuration).
  - **Healthy** - The server can access the URL specified in the site properties.
  - **Unhealthy** - The server can't access the URL specified in the site properties.
  - **Unknown** - This status appears when you haven't set a URL in the site properties. This status doesn’t affect the overall status of the site.

- **Server version** - The status of the Tunnel Gateway Server software, in relation to the most recent version.
  - **Healthy** - Up to date with the most recent software version
  - **Warning** - One version behind
  - **Unhealthy** - Two or more versions behind, and out of support

  When *Server version* isn’t *Healthy*, plan to [install upgrades for Microsoft Tunnel](../protect/microsoft-tunnel-upgrade.md).

## Manage health status thresholds

You can customize the following Microsoft Tunnel health status metrics to change the thresholds each uses to report their status. Customizations are tenant-wide and apply to all Tunnel severs. The health check metrics you can customize include:

- CPU usage
- Memory usage
- Disk space usage
- Latency

**To modify a metrics threshold value**:

:::image type="content" source="./media/microsoft-tunnel-monitor/thresholds.png" alt-text="Screen capture of how to select and configure health status threaholds.":::

1. Sign in to [Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431) and go to **Tenant administration** > **Microsoft Tunnel Gateway** > **Health status**.

2. Select **Configure thresholds**.

3. On the *Configure thresholds* page, set new thresholds for each health check category that you want to customize.
   - Threshold values apply to all servers at all sites.
   - Select **Revert to default** to restore *all* thresholds back to their default values.

4. Select **Save**.

5. On the Health status pane, select **Refresh** to update the status of all servers based on the customized threshold values.

After you modify thresholds, the values on a servers *Health check* tab automatically update to reflect its status, based on the current thresholds.

:::image type="content" source="./media/microsoft-tunnel-monitor/server-health-check.png" alt-text="Screen capture of a servers Health check view.":::
## Health status trends for Tunnel servers

View health status trends Microsoft Tunnel Gateway health metrics in the form of a chart. Data for the charts is averaged over a three-hour block and as such can be delayed up to three hours.

The health status trend charts are available for the following metrics:

- Connections
- CPU usage
- Disk space usage
- Memory usage
- Average latency
- Throughput

To view trend charts:

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).

2. Go to **Tenant administration** > **Microsoft Tunnel Gateway** > **Health status** > *Select a server*, and then select **Trends**

3. Use the **Metric** drop-down to select the metric chart you want to view.

## Use mst-cli command-line tool

Use the **mst-cli** command-line tool to get information about the Microsoft Tunnel server. This file is added to the Linux server when the Microsoft Tunnel installs. The tool is located at: **/usr/sbin/mst-cli**.

For more information and command-line examples, see [mst-cli command-line tool for Microsoft Tunnel](../protect/microsoft-tunnel-reference.md#mst-cli-command-line-tool-for-microsoft-tunnel-gateway).

## View Microsoft Tunnel logs

Microsoft Tunnel logs information to the Linux server logs in the *syslog* format. To view log entries, use the **journalctl -t** command followed by one or more tags that are specific to Microsoft Tunnel entries:

- **ocserv** -  Display server logs.
- **mstunnel-agent**: Display agent logs.
- **mstunnel_monitor**: Display monitoring task logs.

For example, to view information for only the tunnel server, run `journalctl -t ocserv`.  To view information for all three, you can run `journalctl -t ocserv -t mstunnel-agent -t mstunnel_monitor`.

You can add  `-f` to the command to display an active and continuing view of the log file.   For example, to actively monitor ongoing processes for Microsoft Tunnel, run `journalctl -t mstunnel_monitor -f`.

More options for *journalctl*:

- `journalctl -h` – Display command help for *journalctl*.
- `man journalctl` – Display additional information.
- `man journalctl.conf` Display information on configuration
For more information about *journalctl*, see the documentation for the version of Linux that you use.  

## Next steps

[Reference for Microsoft Tunnel](../protect/microsoft-tunnel-reference.md)

Commit message:

Adding access log details, and restructuring to accomidate them

memdocs/intune/protect/microsoft-tunnel-monitor.md, after:

---
title: Monitor the status of the Microsoft Tunnel VPN solution for Microsoft Intune
description: Monitor the status of Microsoft Tunnel Gateway, a VPN server that runs on Linux. With the Microsoft Tunnel, cloud-based devices you manage with Intune can reach your on-premises infrastructure. 
keywords:
author: brenduns
ms.author: brenduns
manager: dougeby
ms.date: 04/11/2022
ms.topic: how-to
ms.service: microsoft-intune
ms.subservice: protect
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.technology:

# optional metadata

#ROBOTS:
#audience:

ms.reviewer: ochukwunyere
ms.suite: ems
search.appverid: MET150
#ms.tgt_pltfrm:
ms.custom: intune-azure
ms.collection: M365-identity-device-management
---

# Monitor Microsoft Tunnel

After installation of Microsoft Tunnel, you can view the server configuration and server health in the Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center (endpoint.microsoft.com).  

## Use the admin center UI

Sign in to [Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431), and go to **Tenant administration** > **Microsoft Tunnel Gateway** > **Health status**.

Select a server and then open the **Health check** tab to view that servers health status metrics. By default, each metric uses predefined threshold values that determine the status. The following metrics [support customization of these thresholds](#manage-health-status-thresholds):

- CPU usage
- Memory usage
- Disk space usage
- Latency

Default values for server health metrics:

- **Last check-in** – When the Tunnel Gateway server last checked in with Intune.
  - *Healthy* – The last check-in was within the last five minutes.
  - *Unhealthy* – More than five minutes have passed since the last check-in.

- **Current connections** – The number of unique connections that were active at the last server check-in.
  - *Healthy* – There were 4,990 or fewer connections
  - *Unhealthy* – There were more than 4,990 active connections

- **Throughput** – The megabits bits per second of traffic passing through the Tunnel Gateway NIC at the last server check-in.

- **CPU usage** – The average CPU use by the Tunnel Gateway server every five minutes.
  - *Healthy* - 95% or less
  - *Warning* - 96% to 99%
  - *Unhealthy* - 100% use

- **Memory usage** – The average memory use by the Tunnel Gateway server every 5 minutes.
  - *Healthy* - 95% or less
  - *Warning* - 96% to 99%
  - *Unhealthy* - 100% use

- **Latency** – The average amount of time it takes for IP packets to arrive and then exit the network interface.
  - *Healthy* - Less than 10 milliseconds
  - *Warning* - 10 milliseconds to 20 milliseconds
  - *Unhealthy* - More than 20 milliseconds

- **TLS certificate** - The number of days until the TLS certificate that secures traffic between clients and the Tunnel Gateway server will expire.
  - *Healthy* - More than 30 days
  - *Warning* - 30 days or less
  - *Unhealthy* - The certificate is expired

- **Internal network accessibility** – Status from the most recent check of the internal URL. You configure the URL as part of a [Tunnel Site configuration](../protect/microsoft-tunnel-configure.md#to-create-a-site-configuration).
  - **Healthy** - The server can access the URL specified in the site properties.
  - **Unhealthy** - The server can't access the URL specified in the site properties.
  - **Unknown** - This status appears when you haven't set a URL in the site properties. This status doesn’t affect the overall status of the site.

- **Server version** - The status of the Tunnel Gateway Server software, in relation to the most recent version.
  - **Healthy** - Up to date with the most recent software version
  - **Warning** - One version behind
  - **Unhealthy** - Two or more versions behind, and out of support

  When *Server version* isn’t *Healthy*, plan to [install upgrades for Microsoft Tunnel](../protect/microsoft-tunnel-upgrade.md).

## Manage health status thresholds

You can customize the following Microsoft Tunnel health status metrics to change the thresholds each uses to report their status. Customizations are tenant-wide and apply to all Tunnel severs. The health check metrics you can customize include:

- CPU usage
- Memory usage
- Disk space usage
- Latency

**To modify a metrics threshold value**:

:::image type="content" source="./media/microsoft-tunnel-monitor/thresholds.png" alt-text="Screen capture of how to select and configure health status threaholds.":::

1. Sign in to [Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431) and go to **Tenant administration** > **Microsoft Tunnel Gateway** > **Health status**.

2. Select **Configure thresholds**.

3. On the *Configure thresholds* page, set new thresholds for each health check category that you want to customize.
   - Threshold values apply to all servers at all sites.
   - Select **Revert to default** to restore *all* thresholds back to their default values.

4. Select **Save**.

5. On the Health status pane, select **Refresh** to update the status of all servers based on the customized threshold values.

After you modify thresholds, the values on a servers *Health check* tab automatically update to reflect its status, based on the current thresholds.

:::image type="content" source="./media/microsoft-tunnel-monitor/server-health-check.png" alt-text="Screen capture of a servers Health check view.":::
## Health status trends for Tunnel servers

View health status trends Microsoft Tunnel Gateway health metrics in the form of a chart. Data for the charts is averaged over a three-hour block and as such can be delayed up to three hours.

The health status trend charts are available for the following metrics:

- Connections
- CPU usage
- Disk space usage
- Memory usage
- Average latency
- Throughput

To view trend charts:

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).

2. Go to **Tenant administration** > **Microsoft Tunnel Gateway** > **Health status** > *Select a server*, and then select **Trends**

3. Use the **Metric** drop-down to select the metric chart you want to view.

## Use mst-cli command-line tool

Use the **mst-cli** command-line tool to get information about the Microsoft Tunnel server. This file is added to the Linux server when the Microsoft Tunnel installs. The tool is located at: **/usr/sbin/mst-cli**.

For more information and command-line examples, see [mst-cli command-line tool for Microsoft Tunnel](../protect/microsoft-tunnel-reference.md#mst-cli-command-line-tool-for-microsoft-tunnel-gateway).

## View Microsoft Tunnel logs

Microsoft Tunnel logs information to the Linux server logs in the *syslog* format. To view log entries, use the **journalctl -t** command followed by one or more tags that are specific to Microsoft Tunnel entries

- **mstunnel-agent**: Display agent logs.
- **mstunnel_monitor**: Display monitoring task logs.
- **ocserv** -  Display server logs.
- **ocserv-access** - Display access logs.

  By default, access logging is disabled. Enabling access logs can reduce performance, depending on the number of active connections and usage patterns on the server. Logging for DNS connections increases the verbosity of the logs, which can become noisy.

  Access logs have the following format: `<Server timestamp><Server Name><ProcessID on Server><userId><deviceId><protocol><src IP and port><dst IP and port><bytes sent><bytes received><connection time in seconds>` For example:

  - *Feb 25 16:37:56 MSTunnelTest-VM ocserv-access[9528]: ACCESS_LOG,41150dc4-238x-4dwv-9q89-55e987f30c32,f5132455-ef2dd-225a-a693-afbbqed482dce,tcp,169.254.54.149:49462,10.88.0.5:80,112,60,10*
  
  To enable access logging:

  1. set TRACE_SESSIONS=1 in /etc/mstunnel/env.sh
  2. set TRACE_SESSIONS=2 to include logging for DNS connections
  3. Run `mst-cli server restart` to restart the server.

  If access logs are too noisy, you can turn off DNS connection logging by setting TRACE_SESSIONS=1 and restarting the server.

Command line examples for *journalctl*:

- To view information for only the tunnel server, run `journalctl -t ocserv`. 
- To view information for all log options, you can run `journalctl -t ocserv -t ocserv-access -t mstunnel-agent -t mstunnel_monitor`.
- Add `-f` to the command to display an active and continuing view of the log file. For example, to actively monitor ongoing processes for Microsoft Tunnel, run `journalctl -t mstunnel_monitor -f`.

More options for *journalctl*:

- `journalctl -h` – Display command help for *journalctl*.
- `man journalctl` – Display additional information.
- `man journalctl.conf` Display information on configuration
For more information about *journalctl*, see the documentation for the version of Linux that you use.  

## Next steps

[Reference for Microsoft Tunnel](../protect/microsoft-tunnel-reference.md)
