---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 01/29/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_tsdt"></a> Improvements to task sequence as a deployment type

<!--3555953-->

Technical preview version 1905 included the initial release of the task sequence as an app model deployment type. This feature allows you to install complex applications using task sequences via the application model. It provides the following benefits:

- Display the app task sequence with an icon in Software Center. An icon makes it easier for users to find and identify the app task sequence.

- Define additional metadata for the app task sequence, including localized information

This release includes the client-side functionality, so you can now see the deployment in Software Center. After you update the site, make sure to also update the client to the latest version.

For more information including prerequisites and set up instructions, see [task sequence as an app model deployment type](../../../2019/technical-preview-1905.md#bkmk_tsdt).

> [!NOTE]
> Aside from the existing prerequisites for this feature to only use non-OSD task sequence steps, it also can't include an app with a task sequence deployment type. If you use the **Install Application** step, don't add an app to that step that installs a task sequence.

### <a name="bkmk_tsdt-ki"></a> Known issues

- You can't yet deploy an app task sequence to a user collection

- Don't use the **Install Application** step in this task sequence. Use the [Install Package](../../../../../osd/understand/task-sequence-steps.md#BKMK_InstallPackage) step to install apps.
