---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 10/03/2018


---

## <a name="bkmk_wakeup"></a> New client notification action to wake up device
<!--1317364-->

You can now wake up clients from the Configuration Manager console, even if the client isn't on the same subnet as the site server. If you need to perform maintenance or query devices, you're not limited by remote clients that are asleep. The site server uses the client notification channel to identify another client that's awake on the same remote subnet, and uses that client to send a wake on LAN request (magic packet).


### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace, expand **Device Collections**, and select a specific collection.  

2. Select one or more clients that are offline. In the ribbon, select **Client Notification** and then select **Wake Up**.  

    > [!Note]  
    > The same action is available on a specific collection. The site tries to wake up any client in that collection that's asleep.  


### Limitations

- Manually enable the client for wake on LAN. This setting is typically on the properties of the network adapter. Check with the vendor of your network adapter for more specific information.  

- At least one client in the target subnet must be awake. 

- This feature doesn't support the following network technologies:  
    - IPv6
    - 802.1x network authentication 


