---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 10/03/2018


---

## <a name="bkmk_bgr-osd"></a> Task sequence support for boundary groups
<!--1359025-->

When a device runs a task sequence and needs to acquire content, it now uses boundary group behaviors similar to the Configuration Manager client.   

You configure this behavior using the following settings on the **Distribution Points** page of the task sequence deployment: 

- **When no local distribution point is available, use a remote distribution point**: For this deployment, the task sequence can fall back to distribution points in a neighbor boundary group.  

- **Allow clients to use distribution points from the default site boundary group**: For this deployment, the task sequence can fall back to distribution points in the default site boundary group.  

To use this new behavior, make sure to update clients to the latest version.

#### Location priority  

The task sequence tries to acquire content in the following order:  

1. Peer cache sources  

2. Distribution points in the *current* boundary group  

3. Distribution points in a *neighbor* boundary group  

    > [!Important]  
    > Due to the real-time nature of task sequence processing, it doesn't wait for the failover time on a neighbor boundary group. It uses the failover times for prioritizing the neighbor boundary groups. For example, if the task sequence fails to acquire content from a distribution point in its current boundary group, it immediately tries a distribution point in a neighbor boundary group with the shortest failover time. If that process fails, it then fails over to a distribution point in a neighbor boundary group with a larger failover time.  

4. Distribution points in the *site default* boundary group  

The task sequence log file smsts.log shows the priority of the location sources that it uses based on the deployment properties.

For more information, see [Configure boundary groups](../../../servers/deploy/configure/boundary-groups.md).


