---
title: Security update for Microsoft Configuration Manager
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Security update for Configuration Manager
ms.date: 07/30/2025
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: bb7c059e-65ed-477d-99e6-8ee261a17f59
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: dougeby
---

# Security update for Microsoft Configuration Manager

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, versions 2403 and 2409)*

## Summary of KB33926600
<!-- 33926600 -->
*Note*

A new version of this update is now available. Refer to [KB 34503790 Revised security update for Microsoft Configuration Manager](../2503/34503790.md) for more information.


An update is available to resolve the vulnerability described in [CVE-2025-47178](https://msrc.microsoft.com/update-guide/en-US/vulnerability/CVE-2025-47178). This same update is included with Microsoft Configuration Manager current branch, version 2503.

### Update information for Microsoft Configuration Manager current branch, versions 2403 and 2409

This update is available in the Updates and Servicing node of the Configuration Manager console for version 2403 and 2409 environments with the following updates applied.
- 2403: [KB28204160: Update rollup for Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2403](../2403/28204160.md)
- 2409: [KB30385346: Update rollup for Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2409](../2409/30385346.md)

### Restart information

This update doesn't require a computer restart, but does require a [site reset](../../core/servers/manage/modify-your-infrastructure.md#bkmk_reset) after installation.

### Additional installation information

After you install this update on a primary site, preexisting secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. This reinstallation doesn't affect configurations and settings for the secondary site. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:
   ```sql
   select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
   ```
If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.

If the value 0 is returned, all the fixes that are applied to the primary site aren't installed for the secondary site. You should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.

## Version information
The SMS Provider (smsprov.dll) is updated to the following versions.
- 2403: 5.00.9128.1034
- 2409: 5.00.9132.1028

## File information
File information is available in the following downloadable files.
- 2403: [KB33926600_2403_FileList](https://aka.ms/KB33926600_2403_FileList)
- 2409: [KB33926600_2409_FileList](https://aka.ms/KB33926600_2409_FileList)

## Release history
- July 30, 2025: Initial hotfix release

## References
[Updates and servicing for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/updates.md)