---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 10/02/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_wdac"></a> Expanded Windows Defender Application Control management
<!--7752243-->
[Windows Defender Application Control](../../../../../protect/deploy-use/use-device-guard-with-configuration-manager.md) enforces an explicit list of software allowed to run on devices. In this technical preview, we've expanded Windows Defender Application Control policies to support devices running Windows Server 2019 or later. <!--8581848-->

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

#### Configure a new Windows Defender Application Control policy

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to **Assets and Compliance** > **Overview** > **Endpoint Protection** > **Windows Defender Application Control**.
1. In the ribbon, select **Create Application Control Policy**.
1. Give your policy a **Name**, an optional **Description**, and select your **Enforcement Mode**.
1. Specify any additional files and folders to be included as trusted software on the **Inclusions** page of the wizard. Select **Next** when you're finished.
1. On the **Summary** page, select **Next** after reviewing your settings, then **Close** to complete the wizard.

#### Deploy the policy to a collection containing devices running Windows Server 2019 or later

1. In the **Windows Defender Application Control**, select the new policy you created.
1. Select **Deploy Application Control Policy** from the ribbon.
1. Use the **Browse** button to choose a collection containing devices running Windows Server 2019 or later.
1. If needed, specify the following options:  
   - A custom compliance evaluation schedule for the application control policy
   - Allowing remediation outside a maintenance window
1. Select **OK** to deploy the policy.

> [!Tip]
> Create new policies to target Windows Server operating systems. Existing Windows Defender Application Control policies won't work with Windows Server operating systems.


