---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 08/30/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_multicast"></a> Improvements to multicast-enabled distribution points

<!--3785535-->

You can now enable multicast on a distribution point without installing Windows Deployment Services (WDS). Because WDS isn't required, the multicast-enabled distribution point can be a client or server OS, including Windows Server Core. It can also receive multicast content in the full OS, it's not limited to only Windows PE.

### Prerequisites

The distribution point and Configuration Manager client use the following network ports:

- TCP 27500-27755
- UDP 27500-27755
- UDP 64001-64256

Make sure your network infrastructure allows the use of these ports.

> [!NOTE]
> You don't have to enable the PXE responder. In this release, when you enable multicast, it always uses this new multicast server.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

#### Enable multicast on the distribution point

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Administration** workspace, and select the **Distribution Points** node. Select the target distribution point, and select **Properties** in the ribbon.

1. Switch to the **Multicast** tab, and select the option to **Enable multicast to simultaneously send data to multiple clients**.

1. Select **OK** to save the settings.

For more information about the additional multicast settings, see [Install and configure distribution points](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/install-and-configure-distribution-points.md#bkmk_config-multicast).

#### Enable packages to use multicast

The following content types support multicast:

- Packages
- Driver packages
- OS images
- OS upgrade packages

Enable any package that you want to distribute via multicast:

1. Open the **Properties** of the target package and switch to the **Distribution Settings** tab.

1. In the OS deployment settings section, enable the option to **Allow this package to be transferred via multicast**.

Distribute these multicast-enabled packages to a multicast-enabled distribution point.

#### Deploy a task sequence

Configure a task sequence deployment that references these multicast-enabled packages. On the **Distribution Points** tab of the deployment properties, select the deployment option to **Download content locally when needed by the running task sequence**.

For more information, see [Deploy a task sequence](../../../../../osd/deploy-use/deploy-a-task-sequence.md).

#### Monitor the multicast deployment

On the distribution point, there's a new log file, **McsServer.log**. This file includes details of multicast download sessions.

On the client, review the **smsts.log** file for entries from the **McsClient** component.

### Known issues

After you configure multicast on a distribution point, confirm the following settings in the registry key `HKLM\Software\Microsoft\SMS\DP`:

- The value `IsMulticast` should be `1`.

- The permissions on the `SccmMcs` key should have the **Local Service** account with **Full Control**.

This multicast provider doesn't support IPv6. Disable the IPv6 protocol on any multicast-enabled distribution point.<!-- 5249773 -->
