---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 10/28/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_blmcmg"></a> Improvements to BitLocker management

<!--6979223-->

Based on your feedback, you can now manage BitLocker policies and escrow recovery keys over a cloud management gateway (CMG). This change also provides support for BitLocker management via internet-based client management (IBCM) and when you configure the site for enhanced HTTP. There's no change to the setup process for BitLocker management. For more information, see [Deploy BitLocker management](../../../../../protect/deploy-use/bitlocker/deploy-management-agent.md).

If you have either the Helpdesk or Self-Service portals set up, use these portals to validate that clients escrow their keys directly to a management point. For more information, see [Set up BitLocker portals](../../../../../protect/deploy-use/bitlocker/setup-websites.md). Continue to use BitLockerManagementHandler.log to help troubleshoot client communication.

### Known issue with BitLocker management

<!-- 8684168 -->

When the client can't communicate with an on-premises management point, there's an issue with the client's BitLocker configuration for key recovery. As a temporary work around for this preview release:

1. Set the following registry key on the client: `HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\CCM\BLM, "UseKeyRecoveryService"=dword:00000001`
1. Restart the **SMS Agent Host** (ccmexec) service.

This value resets each time the client evaluates the BitLocker management policy, which is seven days by default.
