---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 11/05/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_fire"></a> Tenant attach: Create and deploy firewall policies
<!--7768130-->

You can now configure and deploy settings for [Windows Defender Firewall with Advanced Security](/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-firewall/windows-firewall-with-advanced-security) to tenant attached Windows 10 devices.

### Prerequisites

- An environment that's [tenant attached with uploaded devices](../../../../../tenant-attach/device-sync-actions.md)
- Windows 10 or later clients

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

#### <a name="bkmk_collections"></a> Make Configuration Manager collections available to assign Endpoint security policies
If you haven't already done so, make Configuration Manager collections available to assign Endpoint security policies.

[!INCLUDE [Enable endpoint security policies for a Configuration Manager collection](../../../../../../intune/protect/includes/make-configmgr-collection-available-edr.md)]

#### Configure and assign firewall policies

1. Go to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).
1. Select **Endpoint security** > **Firewall** then **Create Policy**.
1. Create a profile with the following settings:
   - **Platform**: Windows 10 and later
      - Only Windows 10 clients can be targeted with firewall policies currently.
   - **Profile**: Microsoft Defender Firewall (ConfigMgr) (preview)
1. Select **Create** then give the profile a **Name** and a **Description**.
1. On the **Configuration settings** page, set the firewall settings for the devices.  

   :::image type="content" source="../../../media/7768130-firewall-configuration.png" alt-text="Firewall configuration settings in the Microsoft Intune admin center" lightbox="../../../media/7768130-firewall-configuration.png":::

1. On the **Assignments** page, select the collections to include for the policy assignment then choose **Next**.
1. Review the settings on the **Review + Create** page and select **Create** when you're done.

#### Confirming firewall policies on the clients

You can confirm the clients applied the policies by reviewing any of the following items:

1. Review the following Configuration Manager client log files:
   - SettingsAgent.log
   - SettingsWMIHandler.log
1. View the settings in **Windows Defender Firewall with Advanced Security** by running `WF.msc` from an elevated command prompt.
1. Use the [Get-NetFirewallSetting](/powershell/module/netsecurity/get-netfirewallsetting) PowerShell cmdlet. For example, `Get-NetFirewallSetting -All -PolicyStore ActiveStore`.
1. Review the instances of the following classes in the `ROOT\cimv2\mdm\dmmap` WMI namespace:
   - MDM_Firewall_Action04
   - MDM_Firewall_App04
   - MDM_Firewall_DomainProfile02
   - MDM_Firewall_FirewallRules02_01
   - MDM_Firewall_Global02
   - MDM_Firewall_PrivateProfile02
   - MDM_Firewall_PublicProfile02
