---
author: mestew
ms.author: mstewart
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 10/28/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_apps"></a> Enhancements to applications in Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center
<!--7979972, 8227649-->

We've made improvements to [applications for tenant attached devices](../../../../../tenant-attach/applications.md). Administrators can now do the following actions for applications in the Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center:

- **Uninstall** an application
- **Repair** installation of an application
- **Re-evaluate** the application installation status
- **Reinstall** an application has replaced **Retry installation**

:::image type="content" source="../../media/7979972-application-repair.png" alt-text="Application installation options in the Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center" lightbox="../../media/7979972-application-repair.png":::

Prerequisites for applications:

- All the prerequisites for [applications for tenant attached devices](../../../../../tenant-attach/applications.md)
- Install the latest version of the Configuration Manager client
- Targeted clients need to be online
- To uninstall an application:
   - The application must have at least one [deployment type](../../../../../apps/deploy-use/create-applications.md#start-the-create-deployment-type-wizard) with the uninstall command defined
   - Required deployments of the application can't be targeted to the client
   - The application must currently be installed on the device
- To repair an application:
   - The application must have at least one [deployment type](../../../../../apps/deploy-use/create-applications.md#start-the-create-deployment-type-wizard) with the repair command defined
   - The application must currently be installed on the device

Permissions needed:

- **Read** permission on **Collection**
   - Apply the permission to both targeted device collections and targeted user collections
- **Read** on the **Application**
- **Approve** on the **Application**

### Known issues
<!--8699417-->
In this technical preview, these actions only work if the client used a self-signed certificate during registration. If the client registered using a PKI certificate or via Cloud Management Gateway, these actions won't work.

You can verify which clients will work by querying the Configuration Manager database. If **ApprovalStatus** is 1, the actions can be run. If the **ApprovalStatus** is 2 or 3, then the actions won't work.

```sql
select s.Name0 as MachineName, c.ApprovalStatus from ClientKeyData c join system_disc s on c.smsid = s.SMS_Unique_Identifier0
``` 

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

#### Uninstall, repair, or re-evaluate an application

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center](https://endpoint.microsoft.com).
1. Go to **Devices** then **All Devices**.
1. Select a device that is synced from Configuration Manager via [tenant attach](../../../../../tenant-attach/device-sync-actions.md).
1. Choose **Applications**.
1. Select the application then the action you want to perform on the device.

