---
author: mestew
ms.author: mstewart
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 10/28/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_dp"></a> Immediate distribution point fallback for clients downloading software update delta content
<!--8286432-->
There's a new [client setting](../../../../clients/deploy/about-client-settings.md#software-updates) for software updates. If delta content is unavailable from distribution points in the current boundary group, you can allow immediate fallback to a neighbor or the site default boundary group distribution points. This setting is useful when using delta content for software updates since the timeout setting per download job is 5 minutes.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

#### Observe the new fallback behavior for delta content

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to **Administration** > **Overview** > **Client Settings**.
1. Open either the default set of client settings or a custom set of settings.
1. Select the **Software Updates** group of client settings.
1. The **If content is unavailable from distribution points in the current boundary group, immediately fallback to a neighbor or the site default** setting has the following options:
   - **Yes**: Allows fallback for delta content to occur immediately
   - **No**: Doesn't allow fallback immediately (default)
1. For the following settings, observe the software update download behaviors for missing content:

   - **Yes**: For delta content, the client doesn't wait to reach the fallback time (in minutes) defined by the [Boundary Group relationship](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/boundary-group-procedures.md#configure-fallback-behavior). Clients immediately fall back to a neighbor or the site default content distribution points when both of the following conditions are met:
      - Delta content is unavailable from distribution points in the current boundary group.
      - The software update deployment allows fallback. 

   - **No** (default): The client honors the fallback time (in minutes) defined by the [Boundary Group relationship](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/boundary-group-procedures.md#configure-fallback-behavior) when it's allowed on the software update deployment. Delta download content may fail with a timeout even if the update content is available on a neighbor or the site default distribution point group.
