---
author: mestew
ms.author: mstewart
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-other
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 10/17/2019
ms.collection: M365-identity-device-management
---

## Include custom configuration baselines as part of compliance policy assessment

You can now add evaluation of custom configuration baselines as a compliance policy assessment rule. When you create or edit a configuration baseline, you have a new option, **Evaluate this baseline as part of compliance policy assessment**. When adding or editing a compliance policy rule, you have a new condition called **Include configured baselines in compliance policy assessment**.

When a user is part of a collection targeted with a compliance policy that includes the rule condition **Include configured baselines in compliance policy assessment**, any baselines with the **Evaluate this baseline as part of compliance policy assessment** option selected that are deployed to the user or the user's device are evaluated for compliance. For example:

- `User1` is part of `User Collection 1`.
- `User1` uses `Device1`, which is in `Device Collection 1`.
- `Compliance Policy 1` has the **Include configured baselines in compliance policy assessment** rule condition and is deployed to `User Collection 1`.
- `Configuration Baseline 1` has **Evaluate this baseline as part of compliance policy assessment** selected and is deployed to `User Collection 1`.
- `Configuration Baseline 2` has **Evaluate this baseline as part of compliance policy assessment** selected and is deployed to `Device Collection 1`.

In this scenario, when `Compliance Policy 1` evaluates for `User1` using `Device1`, both `Configuration Baseline 1` and `Configuration Baseline 2` are evaluated too.

- `User1` sometimes uses `Device2`.
- `Device2`is a member of only one collection called `Device Collection 2`.
- `Device Collection 2` has `Configuration Baseline 3` deployed to it, but **Evaluate this baseline as part of compliance policy assessment** isn't selected.

When `User1` uses `Device2`, only `Configuration Baseline 1` gets evaluated when `Compliance Policy 1` evaluates.


### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](/sccm/core/understand/find-help#product-feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

#### Create and deploy a compliance policy with a rule for baseline compliance policy assessment

1. In the **Assets and Compliance** workspace, expand **Compliance Settings**, then select the **Compliance Polices** node.
1. Click **Create Compliance Policy** in the ribbon to bring up the **Create Compliance Policy Wizard**.
1. Supply the information needed on the **General** and **Supported Platforms** pages.
1. On the **Rules** page, select **New**, then select the **Include configured baselines in compliance policy assessment** condition.
1. Click **OK**, then **Next** to get to the **Summary** page.
1. Verify your selections and click **Next** then **Close**.
1. In the **Compliance Polices** node, right-click on the policy you created, and select **Deploy**.
1. Choose your collection, alert generation settings, and your compliance evaluation schedule for the policy.
1. Click **OK** to deploy the compliance policy.

#### Select a configuration baseline and check "Evaluate this baseline as part of compliance policy assessment"

1. In the **Assets and Compliance** workspace, expand **Compliance Settings**, then select the **Configuration Baselines** node.
1. Right-click on an existing baseline that's deployed, then select **Properties**.
1. Enable the **Evaluate this baseline as part of compliance policy assessment** setting.
1. Click **OK** to save the changes to your configuration baseline.

