---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-other
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 11/05/2019
ms.collection: M365-identity-device-management
---

## <a name="bkmk_cache"></a> Microsoft Connected Cache support for Intune Win32 apps

<!--5032900-->

When you enable Microsoft Connected Cache on your Configuration Manager distribution points, they can now serve Microsoft Intune Win32 apps to co-managed clients.

> [!NOTE]
> Configuration Manager current branch version 1906 included [Delivery Optimization In-Network Cache](/configmgr/core/plan-design/hierarchy/delivery-optimization-in-network-cache), an application installed on Windows Server that's still in development. Starting in technical preview branch version 1911 this feature is now called **Microsoft Connected Cache**.
>
> When you install Connected Cache on a Configuration Manager distribution point, it offloads Delivery Optimization service traffic to local sources. Connected Cache does this behavior by efficiently caching content at the byte range level.

### Prerequisites

#### Client

- Update the client to the latest version.

- The client device needs to have at least 4 GB of memory.

    > [!TIP]
    > Use the following group policy setting: Computer Configuration > Administrative Templates > Windows Components > Delivery Optimization > **Minimum RAM capacity (inclusive) required to enable use of Peer Caching (in GB)**.

#### Site

- Enable Connected Cache on a distribution point. For more information, see [Delivery Optimization In-Network Cache](/configmgr/core/plan-design/hierarchy/delivery-optimization-in-network-cache).

- The client and the Connected Cache-enabled distribution point need to be in the same boundary group.

- Enable the following client settings in the [**Delivery Optimization**](/configmgr/core/clients/deploy/about-client-settings#delivery-optimization) group:

  - **Use Configuration Manager Boundary Groups for Delivery Optimization Group ID**
  - **Enable devices managed by Configuration Manger to use Microsoft Connected Cache servers for content download**

- Enable the pre-release feature **Client apps for co-managed devices**. For more information, see [Pre-release features](/configmgr/core/servers/manage/pre-release-features).

- Enable co-management, and switch the **Client apps** workload to **Pilot Intune** or **Intune**. For more information, see the following articles:

  - [Workloads - Client apps](/configmgr/comanage/workloads#client-apps)
  - [How to enable co-management](/configmgr/comanage/how-to-enable)
  - [Switch workloads to Intune](/configmgr/comanage/how-to-switch-workloads)

    If in pilot, add the client to the pilot collection for Client Apps.

#### Intune

- This feature only supports the Intune Win32 app type.

  - Create and assign (deploy) a new app in Intune for this purpose. (Apps created before Intune version 1811 don't work.) For more information, see [Intune Win32 app management](/intune/apps/apps-win32-app-management).

  - The app needs to be at least 100 MB in size.
  
    > [!TIP]
    > Use the following group policy setting: Computer Configuration > Administrative Templates > Windows Components > Delivery Optimization > **Minimum Peer Caching Content File Size (in MB)**.
