---
title: Summary of changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2203
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Article listing changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2203
ms.date: 04/25/2022
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 6261ac6f-d5d6-499f-8c67-77ebfeeaee4c
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: dougeby
---

# Summary of changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2203

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2203)*

## Summary of KB13174460
Release version 2203 of Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch contains fixes and feature improvements.
The "Issues that are fixed" list isn't inclusive of all changes. Instead, it highlights changes the product development team believes are most relevant to the broad Configuration Manager customer base. Many of these changes were made in response to customer feedback about product issues and improvements.

##### Notes
<!-- TEMPLATE: Make sure to update the links below to reference version-specific articles, including the update rollup for the prior release. Use relative links. -->
- Version 2203 is available as an in-console update that can be installed at the top-tier site in a hierarchy.
- For installation information, see [Checklist for installing update 2203 for System Center Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/checklist-for-installing-update-2203.md).
- For more information about the changes that are included in version 2203, see [What's new in version 2203 of Configuration Manager current branch](../../core/plan-design/changes/whats-new-in-version-2203.md).
- This globally available release contains all of the fixes summarized in the following article.

   KB [12896009](../../hotfix/2111/12896009): Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2111

## Issues that are fixed
<!-- 2837936 -->
- The collection evaluation process is optimized during startup of the SMS_Executive service (*smsexec.exe*) to reduce the overall time required to complete evaluations.
<!-- 3305474 -->
- The SMS Agent Host service (*CCMExec.exe*) hangs in a **Stop Pending** state on clients that are also configured as pull-distribution points. When this issue happens, the thread count for CCMExec.exe in Task Manager will show over 500 threads.
<!-- 5094600 -->
- The **Get-CMSoftwareUpdateDeployment** and **Get-CMSoftwareUpdateDeploymentStatus** PowerShell cmdlets do not run as expected under the context of an account with the Software Update Manager role.
<!-- 5904616 -->
- SQL queries against the **vLogs** view can fail with an XML parsing error which delays data replication service troubleshooting efforts.
<!-- 9196080 -->
- The FailoverManager.log file is improved to remove ambiguous log entries related to site certificates.
<!-- 10266992 -->
- State message processing is now more resilient to intermittent SQL errors.
<!-- 10565692 -->
- The Client Health Dashboard is updated to reduce false negatives related to status messages.
<!-- 11047682 -->
- The Distribution Manager component of the SMS_Executive service on a child site makes unnecessary network calls back to the parent site for package source details such as file size. This delays package processing times in environments with a large number of packages and/ or distribution points across a hierarchy.
<!-- 11155525 -->
- The content size filter for an automated deployment rule does not return any results when an exact value is used instead of a comparison, such as greater than or less than.
<!-- 12505551 -->
- User available programs are incorrectly shown under the Featured section in the company portal.
<!-- 12570698 -->
- Opening a software center notification from the system tray icon bypasses the high impact task sequence notification.
<!-- 12590180 -->
- Starting with Configuration Manager current branch, version 2107, newly installed workgroup clients are not automatically approved as expected in environments using PKI-issues certificates.
<!-- 12708814 -->
- Co-managed clients no longer receive Intune Win32 content via the Microsoft Connected Cache feature.
<!-- 12727584 -->
- Clients fail to receive policy data during an operating system deployment scenario when the dynamic media was created at one site, but the client is within the boundaries of a different site.
<!-- 12873596 -->
- Automated queries against the **SMSCOMPONENTS** WMI class may eventually fail. Event ID 5612 is generated with text resembling the following:
   ```text
   Wmiprvse.exe exceeded handle quota limit
   WMI has stopped WMIPRVSE.EXE because a quota reached a warning value. Quota: PrivatePageCount
   ```
<!-- 12917816 -->
- The **Recommended version of Microsoft .NET Framework** prerequisite checker warning is updated to clarify requirements.
<!-- 12953268 -->
- Files larger than 4GB fail to download from a cloud management gateway when the **BranchCache** feature is enabled. The DTS.log on the client contains an error resembling the following: 
   ```text
   Failed to add file C:\Windows\ccmcache\{content_path}\sources/{filename} to range download. Error - 0x8020002c
   ```
<!-- 13008375 -->
- Operating system deployment task sequences may fail to put the Configuration Manager client into provisioning mode due to a timing issue. This can lead to application installation failures, unintended client patching, or other unexpected side effects. When this happens, the SMSTS.log file contains the following: 
   ```text
   Failed to create instance of progress UI (0x80040154)
   ```
<!-- 13028713 -->
- Improvements for readability are made to the UpdateDeployment and DCMAgent log files.
<!-- 13034131 -->
- The SMS Agent Host service (CCMExec.exe) takes up more memory than expected on a management point if there is a problem reading the *\{MP_installation_directory}\Statistic\CurrentData* file. With verbose debug logging enabled, the CCMStatistics.log contains entries resembling the following:
   ```text
   Statistic initialization failed 0x87d00217
   ```
<!-- 13089286 -->
- Logging for Active Directory discovery methods is improved to include more precise troubleshooting information, such as specific error codes if domain names fail to resolve.
<!-- 13106423 -->
- CMPivot and the Microsoft Edge installer are currently signed with the **Microsoft Code Signing PCA 2011** certificate. If you set PowerShell execution policy to **AllSigned**, then you need to make sure that devices trust this signing certificate. You can now export the certificate from a computer where you've installed a Configuration Manager version 2203 site server. View the certificate on <SMSInstallDir>\cd.latest\SMSSETUP\BIN\X64\CMPivot.ps1, and then export the code signing certificate from the certification path. Then import it to the *machine's* **Trusted Publishers** store on managed devices. You can use the process in the following blog, but make sure to export the *code signing certificate* from the certification path: [Adding a Certificate to Trusted Publishers using Intune](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/intune-customer-success/adding-a-certificate-to-trusted-publishers-using-intune/ba-p/1974488).
<!-- 13250530 -->
- After updating to Configuration Manager current branch, version 2111, the hman.log file contains errors resembling the following:
   ```text
   Failed to read certificate context from file 'readme.txt', 0x8009310b
   Failed to process TPM certs cab, 0x8009310b
   ```
   This error does not effect normal site operations but can hinder other troubleshooting efforts.
<!-- 13323720 -->
- The **Run summarization task** for a software update deployment fails to run on the central administration site (CAS). The statesys.log contains an error resembling the following:
   ```text
   *** exec spProcessSingleSummarizationRequests
   *** [42000][2812][Microsoft][SQL Server Native Client 11.0][SQL Server]Could not find stored procedure 'spTask_SUM_AssignmentComplianceEvaluator'. : spProcessSingleSummarizationRequests
   ```

## Hotfixes that are included in this update
- KB [10096997](../../hotfix/2111/11052354.md) Summary of changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2111
- KB [12709700](../../hotfix/2111/12709700.md) Update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2111
- KB [12959506](../../hotfix/2111/12959506.md) Client update for Configuration Manager current branch, version 2111
- KB [12819689](../../hotfix/2111/12819689.md) Connected cache update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2111
- KB [12896009](../../hotfix/2111/12896009.md) Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2111
<!-- 
## Dependency changes
The following dependent components that are included with Configuration Manager version 2203 are added or updated to the specified versions:
- Microsoft Edge WebView2 Redistributable to version 87.0.664.41
- DOINC (Microsoft Connected Cache) to version 1.5.4.1512
 //No dependency changes noted at this time in 2203
 -->