---
title: Update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2203, early update ring
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Configuration Manager 2203 early update ring
ms.date: 05/02/2022
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 9ce22f76-5d82-484d-97bf-04ad625bb15a
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: dougeby
---
# Update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2203, early update ring

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2203)*
## Summary of KB13953025 
An update is available to administrators who opted in through a PowerShell script to the early update ring deployment for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2203. You can access the update in the Updates and Servicing node of the Configuration Manager console.

This update addresses important, late-breaking issues that were resolved after version 2203 became available globally. This article summarizes the most significant changes.
This update does not apply to sites that downloaded version 2203 on April 26, 2022, or a later date. Therefore, it will not be listed in the Configuration Manager console for those sites.

## Issues that are fixed
<!-- 13969954 -->
- The number of clients reporting an unhealthy state increases unexpectedly after installing an early update release of Configuration Manager current branch, version 2203.

<!-- 13985659 -->
- Windows Feature Updates do not apply as expected due to a timing condition during shutdown of the SMS Agent Host service (CCMExec.exe).

<!-- 13957165 -->
- Administrators are unable to offboard from the Azure US Government Cloud because the checkbox for *Upload to Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center* is disabled.

<!-- 13990381 -->
- The Configuration Manager console terminates unexpectedly if you select the *Community Hub* node before the *Documentation* node finishes loading.

<!-- 14106553 -->
- The **Browse** button on the collection picker for the Windows 10 servicing dashboard does not work. The SMSAdminUI.log contains errors resembling the following:
   ```text
   Webview: Win10ServicingHomePageScriptManager: An error occurred processing request type 'LaunchWizardCollectionPicker' error is InvalidOperationException : System.InvalidOperationException: The calling thread must be STA, because many UI components require this.
   ```

## Update information for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager, version 2203 early update ring
<!-- TEMPLATE: The two dates below = when fast ring was first released and when slow ring made available -->
This update is available in the Updates and Servicing node of the Configuration Manager console for environments that were installed by using the publicly available early update ring builds of version 2203. These builds were available for download between April 9 and April 25, 2022.

To verify which build is installed, look for a package GUID by adding the Package GUID column to the details pane of the Updates and Servicing node in the console. This update applies to first wave installations of version 2203 from packages that have the following GUIDs:

- 08AA4546-8F69-4F42-9C24-5A022ECEEB87
- 56DB32EE-4377-460E-BB19-5095FBCFBE1D

### Restart information
This update does not require a computer restart but will initiate a [site reset](../../core/servers/manage/modify-your-infrastructure.md#bkmk_reset) after installation.

### Update replacement information
This update does not replace any previously released update.

### Additional installation information
After you install this update on a primary site, pre-existing secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select Administration -> Site Configuration -> Sites -> Recover Secondary Site, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. Configurations and settings for the secondary site are not affected by this reinstallation. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:
   ```code
   select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
   ```
If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.

If the value 0 is returned, the site has not installed all the fixes that are applied to the primary site, and you should use the Recover Secondary Site option to update the secondary site.

## Version information
The following major components are updated to the versions specified:

|Component |Version |
|---|---|
| Configuration Manager console | 5.2203.1063.1500 |
| Client | 5.0.9078.1007 |

## File information
File information is available in the downloadable [KB13953025_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB13953025_FileList) text file.

## Release history
- May 2, 2022: Initial hotfix release

## References
[Updates and servicing for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/updates.md)

[Summary of changes in 2203](../../hotfix/2203/13174460.md)