---
title: Summary of changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2503
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Article listing changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2503
ms.date: 03/31/2025
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 86b5a4b2-bee3-4182-9a69-d99b95634683
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: dougeby
ms.reviewer: mstewart
ms.collection: tier3
---

# Summary of changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2503

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2503)*

## Summary of KB31909343
Release version 2503 of Configuration Manager current branch contains fixes and feature improvements.
The "Issues that are fixed" list isn't inclusive of all changes. Instead, it highlights changes the product development team believes are most relevant to the broad Configuration Manager customer base. These changes were made in response to direct customer feedback about product issues and improvements.

##### Notes
- Version 2503 is available as an in-console update that can be installed at the top-tier site in a hierarchy.
- The globally available version of 2503, released on April 23, 2025, also applies to environments that have the early update ring or Technology Adoption Program (TAP) builds.
- For installation information, see [Checklist for installing update 2503 for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/checklist-for-installing-update-2503.md).
- For more information about the changes that are included in version 2503, see [What's new in version 2503 of Configuration Manager current branch](../../core/plan-design/changes/whats-new-in-version-2503.md).
- This release contains all of the fixes summarized in the following article.

   KB [30385346](../../hotfix/2409/30385346.md): Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2409


## Issues that are fixed
<!-- 31986267 -->
- The vulnerability described in [CVE-2025-47178](https://msrc.microsoft.com/update-guide/en-US/vulnerability/CVE-2025-47178) is resolved. Customers can confirm the vulnerability is patched by checking the version of smsprov.dll. A file version of 5.0.9135.1002 or higher indicates the issue is resolved.

<!-- 17419432 -->
- Software metering doesn't run on Arm64 client devices. The client.msi.log file contains entries similar to the following.
   ```text
   Warning 25702. Failed to uninstall PrepDrvr.Sys for Software Metering Agent.
   Component SMS Software Metering Agent is not running
   Software Metering Manager Shutdown
   ```
<!-- 26179914 -->
- The BGBSetup.log file is updated to correct misleading return codes.

<!-- 27264362 -->
- Clients are unable to communicate with a cloud management gateway in environments where Microsoft Entra authentication is disabled.

<!-- 29726666 -->
- Distribution point installation can fail when using an alternate account.

<!-- 29924214 -->
- Windows Server Updates Services (WSUS) location requests return an incorrect error message when verbose logging is enabled.

<!-- 29978686 -->
- Clients can fail to install applications in environments using SQL AlwaysOn. Errors similar to the following are recorded in the MP_Location.log file.
   ```text
   Error connecting to the data source
   Error while invoking SQLDisconnect
   MP LM: Message discarded
   ```

<!-- 30250278 -->
- The servicing state of Windows 10 21H2 is updated to indicate it's out of support.

<!-- 30792434 -->
- The status message viewer can terminate unexpectedly when viewing a large number of messages.

<!-- 31062940 -->
- Content location lookup requests can fail on clients with a large number of IP addresses bound to a single network adapter. Errors similar to the following are recorded in the MP_Location.log file.
   ```text
   Executing parameterized SQL: SELECT CONVERT(NVARCHAR(MAX), dbo.fnMP_GetBoundaryGroupsXML(?)) AS BoundaryGroups
   Error binding parameter
   MPDBOdbcConnection::ExecuteOdbcParamSql()
   MPDBOdbcConnection::ExecuteParameterizedSQL() failed FFFFFFFF
   hr, HRESULT=ffffffff
   MP LM: Message discarded
   ```
<!-- 31371471 -->
- SQL connection leaks lead to clients unable to communicate with the management point. The issue happens for customers that set the "DisableAdditionalValidations" registry value under direction from support. Errors similar to the following are repeated in the MP_Location.log file.
   ```text
   MP LM: Message discarded
   Error connecting to the data source
   Error while invoking SQLDisconnect

<!-- 31478572 -->
- The SMS Executive service (smsexec.exe) can terminate with an unhandled exception on sites using orchestration groups.

<!-- 31623411 -->
- Windows Server 2025 support is updated to include targeted application deployments.

<!-- 26418102 -->
- The Configuration Manager console can terminate when running the Create Automated Deployment Rule Wizard. Several other potential crashes are also corrected in this release.

<!-- 30199925, 30431787 -->
- Missing "Provide Feedback" icons are restored to several different wizards in the Configuration Manager console. The feedback submission process is also updated to prevent false errors messages.


## Hotfixes that are included in this update
- KB [30385346](../../hotfix/2409/30385346.md): Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2409
- KB [30833053](../../hotfix/2409/30833053.md): Cloud management gateway installation update for Configuration Manager 2409


## Dependency changes ##
<!-- 29847654
The Microsoft ODBC redistributable component is updated to version 18.4.1.1. -->
<!-- 29926810 -->
The Visual C++ redistributable is updated to version 14.40.33816.