---
title: Azure for US Government update for Microsoft Configuration Manager
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Azure for US Government update for Configuration Manager
ms.date: 06/30/2025
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 513b59a3-889a-495d-a37e-8a921bae8e2a
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: dougeby
---

# Azure for US Government update for Configuration Manager 2403, 2409, 2503

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, versions 2403, 2409, 2503)*

## Summary of KB33177653
<!-- 33177653 -->
An update is available to resolve the following issue for Configuration Manager customers using the Azure for US Government cloud environment.
- Co-managed devices in Azure for US Government (Fairfax) fail to correctly retrieve compliance status from Microsoft Intune. This causes them to be marked as noncompliant when checking via Software Center.


### Update information for Microsoft Configuration Manager current branch

This update is available in the Updates and Servicing node of the Configuration Manager console for versions 2403 - 2503.
Note that the changes are only applicable in environments with devices co-managed in the Azure for US Government cloud.

### Restart information

This update doesn't require a computer restart or a [site reset](../../core/servers/manage/modify-your-infrastructure.md#bkmk_reset) after installation.

### Additional installation information

After you install this update on a primary site, preexisting secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. This reinstallation doesn't affect configurations and settings for the secondary site. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:
   ```sql
   select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
   ```
If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.

If the value 0 is returned, all the fixes that are applied to the primary site aren't installed for the secondary site. You should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.

## Version information
**2403**

| Component | Version |
|---|---|
| Client | 5.0.9128.1033 |

**2409**

| Component | Version |
|---|---|
| Configuration Manager console | 5.2409.1183.1500 |
| Client | 5.0.9132.1027 |

**2503**

| Component | Version |
|---|---|
| Client | 5.0.9135.1006 |

## File information
File information is available in the following downloadable text files.

[KB33177653_2403_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB33177653_2403_FileList)

[KB33177653_2409_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB33177653_2409_FileList)

[KB33177653_2503_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB33177653_2503_FileList)

## Release history
- June 30, 2025: Initial hotfix release

## References
[Updates and servicing for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/updates.md)