---
title: Cloud management gateway deployment maintenance update
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Cloud management gateway deployment maintenance update
ms.date: 12/03/2025
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 43ff0a84-1d80-499d-8f9a-db09768bcb85
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: dougeby
---

# Cloud management gateway deployment maintenance update for Configuration Manager 2409, 2503

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, versions 2409, 2503)*

## Summary of KB35958849
<!-- 35958849 -->
An update is available to resolve the following issue for Configuration Manager customers using the cloud management gateway component.
- The *Create or Update Public IP Address* deployment maintenance task for a cloud management gateway (CMG) fails every 20 minutes. This happens if the subscription is created in a region with Availability Zones.

Errors similar to the following are recorded in the CloudMgr.log file.
   ```text
   Resource Manager - Creating Public IP Address {CMG_Name} with deployment CreatePublicIPAddress{GUID}
   ERROR: Exception occured for service {CMG_Name} : System.AggregateException: One or more errors occurred.
   STATMSG: ID=9418...
   STATMSG: ID=9401...
   ```

This issue is resolved in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2509.

### Update information for Microsoft Configuration Manager current branch

This update is available in the Updates and Servicing node of the Configuration Manager console for versions 2409 and 2503.
Note that the changes are only applicable in environments using a cloud management gateway.

### Restart information

This update doesn't require a computer restart or a [site reset](../../core/servers/manage/modify-your-infrastructure.md#bkmk_reset) after installation.

### Additional installation information

After you install this update on a primary site, preexisting secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. This reinstallation doesn't affect configurations and settings for the secondary site. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:
   ```sql
   select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
   ```
If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.

If the value 0 is returned, all the fixes that are applied to the primary site aren't installed for the secondary site. You should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.


## File information
File information is available in the following downloadable text files.

[KB35958849_2409_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB35958849_2409_FileList)

[KB35958849_2503_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB35958849_2503_FileList)

## Release history
- December 3, 2025: Initial hotfix release

## References
[Updates and servicing for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/updates.md)