---
title: Security update for Microsoft Configuration Manager - KB37447175
description: Security update to harden access to Network Access Account information
ms.date: 04/14/2026
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.topic: reference
---

# Security update for Microsoft Configuration Manager - KB37447175

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, versions 2409 and 2503)*

## Summary of KB37447175

An update is available to harden the security of the Configuration Manager environment. This update limits access to Network Access Account (NAA) information to OSD media Task Sequence, which is the only scenario that requires this access.

> [!NOTE]
> This same update is included with upcoming Microsoft Configuration Manager current branch, version 2603, and in the hotfix rollup for version 2509. A separate out of band hotfix is not required for versions 2509 and 2603.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For environments that use a Network Access Account, we recommend following the principle of least privilege. Grant the necessary permissions only when needed and remove them after use. For more information on configuring and managing the Network Access Account, see [Network access account](../../core/plan-design/hierarchy/accounts.md#network-access-account).

### Update information for Microsoft Configuration Manager current branch, versions 2409 and 2503

This update is available in the Updates and Servicing node of the Configuration Manager console for environments with the following update applied.

- 2409: [KB 30385346](../../hotfix/2409/30385346.md): Update rollup for Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2409
- 2503: [KB 32851084](../../hotfix/2503/32851084.md): Update rollup for Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2503

### Restart information

This update doesn't require a computer restart, but does require a [site reset](../../core/servers/manage/modify-your-infrastructure.md#bkmk_reset) after installation.

### Additional installation information

After you install this update on a primary site, preexisting secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** > **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. This reinstallation doesn't affect configurations and settings for the secondary site. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:

```sql
select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
```

If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.

If the value 0 is returned, all the fixes that are applied to the primary site aren't installed for the secondary site. You should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.

## Version information

The SMS Provider (smsprov.dll) is updated to the following versions.

| Component | Version |
|---|---|
| SMS Provider (2409) | 5.00.9132.xxxx |
| SMS Provider (2503) | 5.00.9135.xxxx |

## File information

File information is available in the following downloadable files.

- [KB37447175_2409_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB37447175_2409_FileList)
- [KB37447175_2503_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB37447175_2503_FileList)

## Release history

- April 2026: Initial hotfix release

## References

- [Updates and servicing for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/updates.md)
- [Network access account](../../core/plan-design/hierarchy/accounts.md#network-access-account)
