sccm/core/get-started/2019/technical-preview-1901.md, before:

---
title: Technical preview 1901
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Learn about new features available in the Configuration Manager technical preview branch version 1901.
ms.date: 01/22/2019
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-other
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.assetid: 049b87b3-9449-4e61-90d1-441e50fc94f7
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
---

# Features in Configuration Manager technical preview version 1901

*Applies to: System Center Configuration Manager (Technical Preview)*

This article introduces the features that are available in the technical preview for Configuration Manager, version 1901. Install this version to update and add new features to your technical preview site. 

Review the [technical preview](/sccm/core/get-started/technical-preview) article before installing this update. That article familiarizes you with the general requirements and limitations for using a technical preview, how to update between versions, and how to provide feedback.     


<!--  Known Issues Template
## Known issues 

[!INCLUDE [known issue title](includes/known-issue-bugid.md)]

-->



<br>

**The following sections describe the new features to try out in this version:**  

<!-- resort and confirm titles -->

[!INCLUDE [Office on lifecycle dashboard](includes/1901/3556026.md)]

[!INCLUDE [OSD offline servicing](includes/1901/3555951.md)]

[!INCLUDE [NEO 1902 sliver](includes/1901/3734525.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Console device view](includes/1901/3600878.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Client health reporting](includes/1901/3599209.md)]

[!INCLUDE [CMPivot hierarchy support](includes/1901/3610960.md)]

[!INCLUDE [DP maintenance mode](includes/1901/3555754.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Improvements to Run PowerShell Script task sequence step](includes/1901/3556028.md)]

[!INCLUDE [User-defined WOL port](includes/1901/3605925.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Remote control multiple monitors](includes/1901/3231732.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Management insight rules for collections](includes/1901/3555752.md)]

[!INCLUDE [View active consoles](includes/1901/3699367.md)]

[!INCLUDE [StartTime property to OSD provisioning mode](includes/1901/3197824.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Improvements to OS deployment task sequences](includes/1901/3633146.md)] <!--3633146,3641475-->

[!INCLUDE [Azure VM templates](includes/1901/3556017.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Prevent classic cloud service deployment](includes/1901/3605704.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Dedicated monitoring for phased deployments](includes/1901/3555949.md)]



## Next steps

For more information about installing or updating the technical preview branch, see [Technical preview](/sccm/core/get-started/technical-preview).    

For more information about the different branches of Configuration Manager, see [Which branch of Configuration Manager should I use?](/sccm/core/understand/which-branch-should-i-use)

Commit message:

revise feature list for release

sccm/core/get-started/2019/technical-preview-1901.md, after:

---
title: Technical preview 1901
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Learn about new features available in the Configuration Manager technical preview branch version 1901.
ms.date: 01/23/2019
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-other
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.assetid: 049b87b3-9449-4e61-90d1-441e50fc94f7
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
---

# Features in Configuration Manager technical preview version 1901

*Applies to: System Center Configuration Manager (Technical Preview)*

This article introduces the features that are available in the technical preview for Configuration Manager, version 1901. Install this version to update and add new features to your technical preview site. 

Review the [technical preview](/sccm/core/get-started/technical-preview) article before installing this update. That article familiarizes you with the general requirements and limitations for using a technical preview, how to update between versions, and how to provide feedback.     


<!--  Known Issues Template
## Known issues 

[!INCLUDE [known issue title](includes/known-issue-bugid.md)]

-->



<br>

**The following sections describe the new features to try out in this version:**  

[!INCLUDE [Client health dashboard](includes/1901/3599209.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Specify priority for feature updates in Windows 10 servicing](includes/1901/3734525.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Dedicated monitoring for phased deployments](includes/1901/3555949.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Run CMPivot from the central administration site](includes/1901/3610960.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Improvements to Run PowerShell Script task sequence step](includes/1901/3556028.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Office products on lifecycle dashboard](includes/1901/3556026.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Management insight rules for collections](includes/1901/3555752.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Search device views using MAC address](includes/1901/3600878.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Distribution point maintenance mode](includes/1901/3555754.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Optimized image servicing](includes/1901/3555951.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Import a single index of an OS image](includes/1901/3719699.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Use Azure Resource Manager for cloud services](includes/1901/3605704.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Confirmation of console feedback](includes/1901/3556010.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Create a Configuration Manager technical preview lab in Azure](includes/1901/3556017.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Specify a custom port for peer wakeup](includes/1901/3605925.md)]

[!INCLUDE [View recently connected consoles](includes/1901/3699367.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Stop cloud service when it exceeds threshold](includes/1901/3735092.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Client provisioning mode timeout](includes/1901/3197824.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Improvements to OS deployment](includes/1901/3633146.md)] <!--3633146,3641475,3654172,3734270-->



## Next steps

For more information about installing or updating the technical preview branch, see [Technical preview](/sccm/core/get-started/technical-preview).    

For more information about the different branches of Configuration Manager, see [Which branch of Configuration Manager should I use?](/sccm/core/understand/which-branch-should-i-use)
