---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 12/11/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_atp"></a> Expand Microsoft Defender for Endpoint onboarding

In this technical preview, we've expanded Microsoft Defender for Endpoint onboarding support to machines with the following operating systems:

- Windows 7 SP1
- Windows 8.1
- Windows 10, version 1607 or later
   - Already supported for onboarding
- Windows Server 2008 R2 SP1
- Windows Server 2012 R2
- Windows Server 2016
- Windows Server 2016, version 1803
- Windows Server 2019

### Prerequisites

 You'll need a subscription to the Microsoft Defender for Endpoint online service. For more information, see [Licensing Requirements for Microsoft Defender for Endpoint](/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/minimum-requirements#licensing-requirements).


### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

#### Create an onboarding configuration file in Microsoft Defender for Endpoint online service

1. Go to the [Microsoft Defender Security Center](https://securitycenter.windows.com/) and sign in.
1. Click on the **Machine Management** item under **Settings**, then select **Onboarding**.
1. Select the operating systems you'd like to onboard from the list. For example, choose either **Windows 7 and 8.1** or **Windows Server 2012 R2 and 2016**.
1. Copy the values for the **Workspace key** and **Workspace ID** from the **Configure connection** section once the process completes.

#### Onboard devices for Microsoft Defender for Endpoint with Configuration Manager

1. In the **Assets and Compliance** workspace, expand **Endpoint Protection** and chose the **Microsoft Defender ATP Policies** node.
1. Click **Create Microsoft Defender ATP Policy** in the ribbon.
1. Give your policy a name and set the **Policy Type** to **Onboarding**. Click **Next**.
1. **Browse** to the configuration file you created for onboarding these devices.
1. Fill in the **Workspace key** and **Workspace ID** fields with the values you copied when creating the configuration file in the Microsoft Defender for Endpoint online service.
1. Complete the rest of the **Create Microsoft Defender ATP Policy Wizard**.