---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 12/11/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_provisionts"></a> Bootstrap a task sequence immediately after client registration

<!--5526972-->

When you install and register a new Configuration Manager client, and also deploy a task sequence to it, it's difficult to determine how soon after registration it will run the task sequence. This release introduces a new client setup property that you can use to start a task sequence on a client after it successfully registers with the site.

For example, you provision a new Windows 10 device with Windows Autopilot, auto-enroll it to Microsoft Intune, and then install the Configuration Manager client for co-management. If you specify this new option, the newly provisioned client then runs a task sequence. This process gives you additional flexibility to install applications and software updates, or configure settings.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. [Create a non-OS deployment task sequence](../../../../../osd/deploy-use/create-a-task-sequence-for-non-operating-system-deployments.md)) to install apps, install software updates, and configure settings.

1. [Deploy this task sequence](../../../../../osd/deploy-use/deploy-a-task-sequence.md) to the new built-in collection, **All Provisioning Devices**. Note the task sequence deployment ID, for example `PRI20001`.

1. [Install the Configuration Manager client](../../../../clients/deploy/deploy-clients-to-windows-computers.md#BKMK_Manual) on a device, and include the following property: `PROVISIONTS=PRI20001`. Set the value of this property as the task sequence deployment ID.

    - If you're installing the client from Intune during co-management enrollment, see [How to prepare internet-based devices for co-management](../../../../../comanage/how-to-prepare-Win10.md).

      > [!NOTE]
      > This method may have additional prerequisites. For example, enrolling the site to Azure Active Directory, or creating a content-enabled cloud management gateway.

After the client installs and properly registers with the site, it starts the referenced task sequence. If client registration fails, the task sequence won't start.
