---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 12/14/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_disableapp"></a> Disable application deployments

<!--8354812-->

Based on your feedback, you can now disable application deployments.

Other objects already have similar behaviors:

- Software update deployments: Disable the deployment
- Phased deployments: Suspend the phase
- Package: Disable the program
- Task sequence: Disable the task sequence
- Configuration baseline: Disable the baseline

For device-based deployments, when you disable the deployment or object, use the client notification action to **Download Computer Policy**. This action immediately tells the client to update its policy from the site. If the deployment hasn't already started, the client receives the updated policy that the object is now disabled.

Starting in this release, you can now disable an application deployment.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Software Library** workspace, expand **Application Management**, and select the **Applications** node.

1. Select an app that you've deployed. In the details pane, switch to the **Deployment** tab.

1. Select a deployment. In the ribbon, on the **Deployment** tab, select **Disable**.

    For a user-based deployment, the user needs to sign out of Windows. Policy updates when they sign in to Windows, or every 24 hours by default.

1. For a device-based deployment, note the name of the collection in **Collection** field of the deployment.

    > [!TIP]
    > When you select the deployment, press **CTRL** + **C**. This keyboard shortcut copies the values of the current columns for the selected deployment.

    <!-- 1. Right-click the deployment and select **Collection**. This action switches the view to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace showing the target collection for the deployment.  -->

1. Switch to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace, select the **Device Collections** node, and locate the target collection for the deployment. The quickest method is to search for the collection name as previously noted. You may need to select the option in the ribbon to search **All subfolders**.

1. Select the target collection for the deployment. In the ribbon, in the **Collection** group, select **Client Notification** and choose the **Download Computer Policy** action.

To enable the deployment, repeat this process but select the **Enable** action on the application deployment.
