---
title: Summary of changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2409
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Article listing changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2409
ms.date: 12/06/2024
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 99172ed9-86d3-40e5-be24-941fe2a538b1
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: apoorvseth
ms.reviewer: mstewart,aaroncz 
ms.collection: tier3
---

# Summary of changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2409

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2409)*

## Summary of KB26186448
Release version 2409 of Configuration Manager current branch contains fixes and feature improvements.
The "Issues that are fixed" list isn't inclusive of all changes. Instead, it highlights changes the product development team believes are most relevant to the broad Configuration Manager customer base. These changes were made in response to direct customer feedback about product issues and improvements.

##### Notes
- Version 2409 is available as an in-console update that can be installed at the top-tier site in a hierarchy.
- The globally available version of 2409, released on November 18, 2024, also applies to environments that have the early update ring or Technology Adoption Program (TAP) builds.
- For installation information, see [Checklist for installing update 2409 for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/checklist-for-installing-update-2409.md).
- For more information about the changes that are included in version 2409, see [What's new in version 2409 of Configuration Manager current branch](../../core/plan-design/changes/whats-new-in-version-2409.md).
- This release contains all of the fixes summarized in the following article.

   KB [28204160](../../hotfix/2403/28204160.md): Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2403


## Issues that are fixed
<!-- 17419432 -->
- Software metering doesn't run on Arm64 client devices. The client.msi.log file contains entries similar to the following.
   ```text
   Warning 25702. Failed to uninstall PrepDrvr.Sys for Software Metering Agent.
   Component SMS Software Metering Agent is not running
   Software Metering Manager Shutdown
   ```

<!-- 25298734, 25416616 -->
- The Microsoft Entra app secret key renewal process is updated to keep expiration dates in line with recommended standards.

<!-- 26143837 -->
- The Cloud Services Manager component is updated to correctly log information about deployment instance status.

<!-- 27910367 -->
- Windows 10, version 22H2 displays incorrect information for the end of the support lifecycle. 

<!-- 28485036 -->
-  Content download fails when the client is using a cloud management gateway with boundary groups, and BranchCache is enabled. The DataTransferService.log contains the following error:
   ```text
   GetDirectoryList_HTTP Error sending DAV request. HTTP code 500, status 'Internal Server Error'
   ```

<!-- 28955082 -->
- The PXE Boot process fails after updating to Configuration Manager version 2403 in an untrusted domain.

<!-- 29627214 -->
- The CleanIISLogs task is updated on cloud management gateways to prevent virtual drives from running out of space.


## Hotfixes that are included in this update
- KB [28204160](../../hotfix/2403/28204160.md): Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2403
- KB [28290310](../../hotfix/2403/28290310.md): Cloud management gateway update for Configuration Manager 2403
- KB [28458746](../../hotfix/2403/28458746.md): Software update management client fix for Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2403
- KB [29166583](../../hotfix/2403/29166583.md): Management point security update for Configuration Manager 2403

<!-- ## Dependency changes ## -->
<!-- 29926810 -->
<!-- The Visual C++ redistributable component is updated to version 1.1.0.239. -->
