---
title: Update rollup for Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2409
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Update rollup for Configuration Manager 2409
ms.date: 03/12/2025
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 026de9dd-a76a-4a12-8e75-e4e56d27dca9
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: dougeby
---

# Update rollup for Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2409

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2409)*

## Summary of KB30385346
This article describes issues that are fixed in the update rollup for Microsoft Configuration Manager current branch, version 2409. This update applies both to customers who opted in through a PowerShell script to the early update ring deployment, and customers who installed the globally available release.

For more information on changes in Configuration Manager version 2409, see:

- [What’s new in version 2409 of Configuration Manager current branch](../../core/plan-design/changes/whats-new-in-version-2409.md)
- [Summary of changes in Microsoft Configuration Manager current branch, version 2409](../../hotfix/2409/30195272.md)

## Issues that are fixed
<!-- 31239212 -->
- Internet based clients using the alternate content provider are unable to download content from a cloud management gateway or cloud distribution point.

<!-- 30833053 -->
- Deployment or auto upgrade of cloud management gateways can fail due to an incorrect content download link.

<!-- 30795943 -->
- Internet based clients can fail to communicate with a management point. The failure happens if the SMS Agent Host service (ccmexec.exe) on the management point terminates unexpectedly.
Errors similar to the following are recorded in the LocationServices.log file on the clients.
   ```console
   [CCMHTTP] ERROR INFO: StatusCode=500 StatusText=CMGConnector_InternalServerError
   ```

<!-- 30795793 -->
- The Configuration Manager console displays an exception when you check the properties of a Machine Orchestration Group (MOG). Membership of the MOG can't be modified; it must be deleted and recreated. The exception happens when the only computer added to a MOG doesn't have the Configuration Manager client installed.

<!-- 30795930 -->
- Hardware inventory collection on a client gets stuck in a loop if the SMS_Processor WMI class is enabled, and the processor has more than 128 logical processors per core.

<!-- 30795082 -->
- If a maintenance window is configured with **Offset (days)** value, it will fail to run on clients if the run date happens on the next month. Errors similar to the following are recorded in the UpdatesDeployment.log file.
   ```console
   Failed to populate Servicewindow instance {GUID}, error 0x80070057
   ```

<!-- 30795098 -->
- The spCleanupSideTable stored procedure fails to run and generates exceptions on Configuration Manager sites using SQL Server 2019 when recent SQL cumulative updates are applied. The dbo.Logs table contains the following error.
   ```console
   "ERROR 6522, Level 16, State 1, Procedure spCleanupSideTable, Line 0, Message: A .NET Framework error occurred during execution of user-defined routine or aggregate "spCleanupSideTable": System.FormatException: Input string was not in a correct format. System.FormatException: at System.Number.StringToNumber(String str, NumberStyles options, NumberBuffer& number, NumberFormatInfo info, Boolean parseDecimal) at System.Number.ParseInt64(String value, NumberStyles options, NumberFormatInfo numfmt) at Microsoft.SystemsManagementServer.SQLCLR.ChangeTracking.CleanupSideTable(String tableToClean, SqlInt64& rowsDeleted) ."
   ```

<!-- 31341652 -->
- Multiple URLs are updated to handle a back-end change to the content delivery network used for downloading Configuration Manager components and updates.

<!-- 31476761 -->
- The Configuration Manager console can terminate unexpectedly if a dialog contains the search field.

## Hotfixes that are included in this update

- [KB 30833053](../../hotfix/2409/30833053.md): CMG installation update for Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2409

## Update information for Microsoft Configuration Manager current branch, version 2409

This update is available in the Updates and Servicing node of the Configuration Manager console for environments that were installed by using the globally available build of version 2409.

<!-- Members of the Configuration Manager Technology Adoption Program (TAP) must first apply the private TAP rollup before this update is displayed. -->

To verify which build is in use, look for a Package GUID by adding the Package GUID column to the details pane of the Updates and Servicing node in the console. The update applies to installations from packages that have the following GUID:

- **E7B11914-3BB0-4925-A84C-6766C747B0F8**

### Restart information

This update doesn't require a computer restart but will initiate a [site reset](../../core/servers/manage/modify-your-infrastructure.md#bkmk_reset) after installation.

### Additional installation information

After you install this update on a primary site, preexisting secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. The reinstallation doesn't affect configurations and settings for the secondary site. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:

```sql
select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
```

If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.

If the value 0 is returned, all the fixes that are applied to the primary site aren't installed for the secondary site. You should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.

## Version information

The following major components are updated to the versions specified:

| Component | Version |
|---|---|
| Configuration Manager console | 5.2409.1183.1400 |
| Client | 5.0.9132.1023 |

## File information

File information for the release is available in the downloadable [KB30385346_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB30385346_FileList) text file.

## Release history

- March 12, 2025: Initial hotfix release

## References

[Updates and servicing for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/updates.md)
