---
title: Summary of changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2509
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Article listing changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2509
ms.date: 11/11/2025
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 7de5958d-5e43-4dd6-9ede-7881f7c5173d
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: dougeby
ms.reviewer: mstewart
ms.collection: tier3
---

# Summary of changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2509

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2509)*

## Summary of KB35877153
Release version 2509 of Configuration Manager current branch contains fixes and feature improvements.
The "Issues that are fixed" list isn't inclusive of all changes. Instead, it highlights changes the product development team believes are most relevant to the broad Configuration Manager customer base. These changes were made in response to direct customer feedback about product issues and improvements.

##### Notes
- The early update ring version is available as an in-console update that can be installed at the top-tier site in a hierarchy.
- 
- For installation information, see [Checklist for installing update 2509 for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/checklist-for-installing-update-2509.md).
- For more information about the changes that are included in version 2509, see [What's new in version 2509 of Configuration Manager current branch](../../core/plan-design/changes/whats-new-in-version-2509.md).
- This release contains all of the fixes summarized in the following article.

   KB [32851084](../../hotfix/2503/32851084.md): Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2503


## Issues that are fixed
<!-- 9372549 -->
- The site server recovery process is optimized to prevent updating statistics on all tables. This change improves the performance of the recovery process.

<!-- 10991349 -->
- Boundary group data is now replicated to the central administration site (CAS). The "Boundary Group(s)" column can now be added and populated when viewing devices from the console.

<!-- 13924437 -->
- The SCCMReporting.log file is optimized to more accurately show specific errors; this reduces troubleshooting time needed for reporting services.

<!-- 14311932 --> 
- The message "Violation of PRIMARY KEY constraint 'CI_DocumentStore_PK'" can occur when trying to create new applications or synchronize Windows Server Update Services (WSUS). This error happens after updating to a new version of Configuration Manager.

<!-- 14935213, 15126097 -->
- Active Directory (Microsoft Entra) discovery processing and logging is updated to improve stability and troubleshooting of the discovery process.

<!-- 15251278 -->
- The content library cleanup process now handles multiple SMS providers correctly. Previously it might fail if a provider was offline or otherwise unavailable.

<!-- 17508537 -->
- Configuration Manager updates can fail after upgrading to Windows Server 2019 or 2022.
Errors similar to the following are recorded in the CMUpdate.log file.
   ```text
   ERROR: CompileMOFFile: Failed to compile MOF E:\ConfigMgr\bin\x64\TaskSequenceProvider.mof, error -1
   ERROR: Failed to compile MOF file E:\ConfigMgr\bin\x64\TaskSequenceProvider.mof.
   ERROR: Failed to install/Upgrade SDK Server on {SiteServer}.
   InstallComponents failed
   ```

In some cases after this error occurs, the server may fail to restart normally. Booting into safe mode results in the following message:
   ```text
   LogonUI.exe - System Error : 
   The system detected an overrun of a stack-based buffer in this application. This overrun could potentially allow a malicious user to gain control of this application.
   ```

<!-- 18443123 -->
- Deployed Task Sequences that are configured to only run and restart in a Maintenance Window fail to reboot using the "Restart Computer" step when only using a "Task sequences" Maintenance Window (Type 5).

<!-- 24160848 -->
- Phased deployments can fail after updating to a new version of Configuration Manager. Errors similar to the following are recorded in the PhasedDeployment.log file.
   ```text
   Exception: System.Data.SqlClient.SqlException (0x80131904): A trigger returned a result set and/or was running with SET NOCOUNT OFF while another outstanding result set was active.  
   ```

<!-- 25140417 -->
- The Microsoft Entra discovery process can time out in environments with a large number of clients. 

<!-- 25273243 -->
- Disabling a "Monthly by Weekday" offset schedule for maintenance windows results in an invalid policy distributed to clients. This error has the side effect of preventing any service windows from being applied.

<!-- 25354908 -->
-The distribution point usage summary report isn't updated correctly in environments using the enhanced HTTP configuration.

<!-- 25481559,24469721,25720132,28076899,30188828,31638737,31750346,31970047,33689091,33929706 -->
- Logging is improved for multiple site server components to improve ease of troubleshooting.

<!-- 25563509 -->
- Client agent installation fails during OSD if the client.msi parameter **CCMALWAYSINF=1** is provided and the device booted through the PXE Responder service.

<!-- 25836298 -->
- The *Start-CMContentDistribution* cmdlet doesn't distribute content for task sequences.

<!-- 26051346 -->
- Group membership data for machines and users is removed if the discovery process fails with error 0x8007200F (ERROR_DS_UNAVAILABLE).

<!-- 26696083 -->
- The size of the client content cache is reported incorrectly when partial content is downloaded.

<!-- 27691770 -->
- Content can fail to download onto a client if the computer enters a connected standby state during the download process.

<!-- 28414573,31173130,13903996 -->
- The service connection tool now checks for the required ODBC driver version. Logging is also improved for easier troubleshooting.

<!-- 28843041 -->
- A management point in an untrusted forest can fail to manage clients due to a SQL connection error.

<!-- 30233249 -->
- Task sequences fail to run on ARM64 clients due to reading an incorrect registry key.

<!-- 31707101 -->
- The create task sequence media process fails when creating bootable media if the SMS provider isn't installed on the management point.

<!-- 31867436 -->
- The *New-CMAdministrativeUser* cmdlet doesn't work as expected if the **Name** value in Microsoft Entra doesn't match the **SamAccountName** value.

<!-- 33284214 -->
- Available user deployments don't appear in Software Center when the Configuration Manager client is installed on Windows Server 2025.

<!-- 35702403 -->
- The *Install Software Updates* task sequence step fails on new computer (bare metal) installations after installing KB32851084 on version 2503.



## Hotfixes that are included in this update
- KB [32851084](../../hotfix/2503/32851084.md): Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2503
- KB [33177653](../../hotfix/2503/33177653.md): Azure for US Government update for Microsoft Configuration Manager
- KB [34503790](../../hotfix/2503/34503790.md): Revised security update for Microsoft Configuration Manager


<!-- ## Dependency changes ## -->
<!-- 29847654
The Microsoft ODBC redistributable component is updated to version 18.4.1.1. -->
<!-- 29926810 -->
<!-- The Visual C++ redistributable is updated to version 14.40.33816. -->