---
title: Offline feedback update for Configuration Manager 2403, 2409, 2503
description: Offline feedback submission fails with a System.IO.FileLoadException due to a Microsoft.Identity.Client version mismatch when using UploadOfflineFeedback.exe in Configuration Manager.
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.date: 03/6/2026
ms.topic: troubleshooting
---

# Offline feedback submission fails when using UploadOfflineFeedback.exe

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (2403, 2409, and 2503)*
## Prerequisites
To apply this hotfix, you must be using Configuration Manager, versions 2409 (with Update rollup 30385346) versions 2503 (with Update rollup 32851084 installed) and 2509.
[2409:Update rollup for Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2409](../../hotfix/2409/30385346.md)
[2503: Update rollup for Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2503](../../hotfix/2503/32851084.md)

## Summary of KB36419072
With this change, there is a known issue that the standalone tool UploadOfflineFeedback.exe won't work, this will be fixed in next release, but you can still use other embedded UX to send feedback from [Product feedback - Configuration Manager | Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/intune/configmgr/core/understand/product-feedback)

add file informtaion for each version below

### Restart information
This update doesn't initiate a [site reset](../../core/servers/manage/modify-your-infrastructure.md#bkmk_reset) after installation.

### Update replacement information
This update doesn't replace any previously released update.

### Additional installation information
After you install this update on a primary site, preexisting secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. This reinstallation doesn't affect configurations and settings for the secondary site. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:
   ```sql
   select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
   ```
If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.

If the value 0 is returned, all the fixes that are applied to the primary site aren't installed for the secondary site. You should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.



## File information
File information is available in the following downloadable text files.

[KB36419072_2409_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB36419072_2409_FileList)

[KB36419072_2503_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB36419072_2503_FileList)

[KB36419072_2509_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB36419072_2509_FileList)