---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 02/07/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_odfb"></a> Redirect Windows known folders to OneDrive
<!--3556021-->

Use Configuration Manager to move Windows known folders to OneDrive for Business. These folders include Desktop, Documents, and Pictures. To simplify your Windows 10 upgrades, deploy these settings to Windows 7 clients before deploying a task sequence. 

For more information on this feature of OneDrive for Business, see [Redirect and move Windows known folders to OneDrive](/onedrive/redirect-known-folders).


### Prerequisites

- [Find your Microsoft 365 tenant ID](/onedrive/find-your-office-365-tenant-id)  

- Deploy the OneDrive sync client version 18.111.0603.0004 or later. For more information, see [Deploy OneDrive apps by using Configuration Manager](/onedrive/deploy-on-windows).  


### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace, expand **Compliance Settings**, and select the **OneDrive for Business Profiles** node.  

2. In the ribbon, select **Create OneDrive for Business Profile**.  

3. Specify a name to identify this policy, and select **Next**.  

4. On the **Settings** page:

    1. Specify your Microsoft 365 tenant ID.  

    2. Select one of the following options to move the known folders to OneDrive:  

        - **Prompt users to move Windows known folders to OneDrive**: With this option, the user sees a wizard to move their files. If they choose to postpone or decline moving their folders, OneDrive periodically reminds them.  

        - **Silently move Windows known folders to OneDrive**: When this policy applies to the device, the OneDrive client automatically redirects the known folders to OneDrive for Business.  

            - **Show notification to users after folders have been redirected**: If you enable this option, the OneDrive client notifies the user after it moves their folders.  

    3. **Prevent users from redirecting their Windows known folders back to their PC**: Disables the option in OneDrive for Business on the client for users to move these folders back to the device.  

5. Complete the wizard, then deploy the policy.  


### Known issue

After you create a OneDrive for Business profile, the Configuration Manager console unexpectedly closes. The wizard successfully created the profile. The same behavior occurs when viewing a policy in the OneDrive for Business Profiles node. 

#### Workaround
To manage these profiles, use the following PowerShell cmdlets:


```PowerShell
# View all OneDrive for Business profiles
Get-CMConfigurationPolicy -Fast | Where-Object { $_.CategoryInstance_UniqueIDs -eq "SettingsAndPolicy:SMS_OneDriveKnownFolderMigrationSettings" }

# Deploy a profile
# Use the LocalizedDisplayName property value of the policy as the CommonProfileName parameter.
New-CMConfigurationPolicyDeployment -CommonProfileName "my ODfB profile" -CollectionName "my collection"

# Delete a profile
Remove-CMConfigurationPolicy -Name "my ODfB profile"
```

For more information, see the following articles:
- [Get-CMConfigurationPolicy](/powershell/module/configurationmanager/get-cmconfigurationpolicy)
- [New-CMConfigurationPolicyDeployment](/powershell/module/ConfigurationManager/New-CMConfigurationPolicyDeployment)
- [Remove-CMConfigurationPolicy](/powershell/module/configurationmanager/remove-cmconfigurationpolicy)