---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 06/24/2021
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_dotnet"></a> Microsoft .NET requirements

<!--10033951,10073070,10081488-->

Configuration Manager now requires Microsoft .NET Framework version 4.6.2 for site servers, specific site systems, clients, and the console. Before you run setup to install or update the site, first update .NET and restart the system. If possible in your environment, install the latest version of .NET version 4.8.

> [!NOTE]
> .NET Framework version 4.6.2 is preinstalled with Windows Server 2016 and Windows 10 version 1607. Later versions of Windows are preinstalled with a later version of the .NET Framework.
>
> .NET Framework version 4.8 isn't supported on some OS versions, such as Windows 10 2015 LTSB.
>
> For more information, see [.NET Framework system requirements](/dotnet/framework/get-started/system-requirements).

### Site server

If the site server doesn't have any collocated roles that require .NET, it still requires .NET, but setup doesn't automatically install it. Make sure the site server itself has at least .NET version 4.6.2, but install .NET 4.8 if possible.

### Site systems

During Configuration Manager setup, if site systems have a version earlier than 4.6.2, you'll see a prerequisite check warning. This check is a warning instead of an error, because setup will install version 4.6.2. When .NET updates, it usually requires Windows to restart. Site systems will send status message 4979 when a restart is required. Configuration Manager suppresses the restart; the system doesn't restart automatically.

The behavior will differ for different types of site roles that require .NET:

- The following site system roles support in-place upgrade of .NET. After upgrading .NET, if a restart is required, it sends status message 4979. The role keeps running with the earlier .NET version. After Windows restarts, the role starts using the new .NET version.
  - Asset Intelligence synchronization point
  - Management point
  - Service connection point
  - Data warehouse service point

- The following site systems roles uninstall and reinstall when .NET is upgraded. During site update, site component manager removes the role, and then updates .NET. If a restart is required, it sends status message 4979. After restart, site component manager reinstalls the role with the new .NET version. The role could be unavailable while it waits for you to restart the server.
  - SMS Provider for the administration service
  - Certificate registration point
  - Enrollment point
  - Enrollment proxy point
  - Reporting services point
  - Software update point

> [!NOTE]
> Currently, you still need to enable the Windows feature for .NET Framework 3.5 on [site systems that require it](../../../../plan-design/configs/site-and-site-system-prerequisites.md).

If site systems have at least version 4.6.2 but earlier than version 4.8, you'll also see a prerequisite check warning. We recommend that you install the latest version of .NET version 4.8 to get the latest performance and security improvements. Configuration Manager setup doesn't automatically install .NET version 4.8. A later version of Configuration Manager will require .NET version 4.8.

There's also a new [management insight](../../../../servers/manage/management-insights.md) to recommend site systems that don't yet have .NET version 4.8 or later.

### Configuration Manager clients

When you install or update the Configuration Manager client, if the device doesn't have at least .NET version 4.6.2, CCMSetup installs it. CCMSetup suppresses a restart if necessary, and the user will see a Windows notification to restart. .NET version 4.8 is recommended on clients also.

### Configuration Manager console

The Configuration Manager console also requires .NET version 4.6.2, but version 4.8 is recommended. If you install the console on other devices, make sure to update .NET. If the device isn't compliant, the console setup doesn't install this prerequisite.

> [!NOTE]
> The ConfigurationManager PowerShell module that installs with the console requires .NET version 4.7.2 or later.
