---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 06/24/2021
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_uninstall"></a> Implicit uninstall of applications

<!--3607457-->

Many customers have lots of collections because for every application they need at least two collections: one for install and another for uninstall. This practice adds overhead of managing more collections, and can reduce site performance for collection evaluation.

Starting in this release, you can enable an application deployment to support implicit uninstall. If a device is in a collection, the application installs. Then when you remove the device from the collection, the application uninstalls.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. [Add a device to a collection](../../../../clients/manage/manage-clients.md#add-selected-items). This action typically involves creating a direct membership rule for the device.

1. [Deploy an application](../../../../../apps/deploy-use/deploy-applications.md) to that device collection.

1. On the Deployment Settings page of the Deploy Software Wizard, configure the following options:

    - **Action**: Install

    - **Purpose**: Required

    - Enable **Uninstall this application if the targeted object falls out of the collection**

1. Complete the Deploy Software Wizard.

1. [Download computer policy](../../../../clients/manage/manage-clients.md#start-policy-retrieval) on the device. Because it's a required deployment, the client installs the app. You can use Software Center to view the installation status. For more information, see the [Software Center user guide](../../../../understand/software-center.md#applications).

1. Remove the device from the collection. This action typically involves removing the direct membership rule for the device from the [collection properties](../../../../clients/manage/collections/manage-collections.md#collection-properties).

After you remove the device from the collection, the following process happens:

- A background worker process runs on the site server every 10 minutes. This task keeps track of apps for which you've enabled this option. It then detects devices that you removed from the target collection. To help you troubleshoot this process, view the **SMS_ImplicitUninstall.log** file on the site server.

- The client needs to download computer policy. By default, the [client policy polling interval](../../../../clients/deploy/about-client-settings.md#client-policy) client setting is 60 minutes. To accelerate this step, manually [Download computer policy](../../../../clients/manage/manage-clients.md#start-policy-retrieval).

- 15 minutes after the client receives the updated policy, it uninstalls the app.

Depending upon the timing of those steps, the longest time period for the client to uninstall the app is 85 minutes. If the first step happens immediately, and you manually download computer policy on the device, the overall process is 15 minutes.
