---
author: mestew
ms.author: mstewart
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 06/24/2021
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_rbac"></a> Intune role-based access control for tenant attach
<!--8126836, 6415648, 8348644-->
You can use Intune role-based access control (RBAC) when displaying the **Client details** page for [tenant attached devices](../../../../../tenant-attach/device-sync-actions.md) in the Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center. When using Intune as the RBAC authority, a user with the [Help Desk Operator role](../../../../../../intune/fundamentals/role-based-access-control.md#built-in-roles) doesn't need an assigned security role or additional permissions from Configuration Manager. Currently, the Help Desk Operator role can display only the **Client details** page without additional Configuration Manager permissions.

:::image type="content" source="../../media/8126836-intune-rbac.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the CoMgmtSettingsProd properties showing the Configure upload tab":::

To use Intune role-based access control for tenant attach, use the instructions below:

1. From the Configuration Manager console, go to, **Administration** > **Cloud Services** > **Cloud Attach**.
1. If you already have tenant attach enabled, open the properties for **CoMgmtSettingsProd**. If you don't have tenant attach enabled, select **Configure Cloud Attach** to open the **Cloud Attach Configuration wizard**.
1. On the **Configure upload** tab (or page in the wizard), enable the following option under the **Role-based Access Control** heading:

   **Use Intune role-based access control (RBAC) when you view Configuration Manager devices and take action in Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center**
1. Choose **OK** to save the change to the **CoMgmtSettingsProd** properties, or continue on with the wizard to finish enabling tenant attach.

Open the **Admin Center Preview** to verify the the Help Desk Operator can see **Client details**:

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace and select the **Devices** node.
1. Right-click on a device that's been uploaded to Microsoft Endpoint Manager.
1. In the right-click menu, select **Start** > **Admin Center Preview** to open the preview in your browser.
     - This launch is a preview experience. The final location will be in Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center.
1. Sign into the Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center as a user that has  the Help Desk Operator role.
1. Display the **Client details** page.

### Known issues
<!--9960664-->
For this technical preview, an Intune RBAC check always occurs for the Help Desk Operator for all tenant attach actions, not just for **Client details**. If the Intune RBAC option isn't enabled and the Help Desk Operator doesn't have permissions from Configuration Manager, the incoming request from the Intune console will be rejected.

A Help Desk Operator without permissions in Configuration Manager will only see the **Client details** page. When the Help Desk Operator has permissions in Configuration Manager, they can access other tenant attach actions, such as CMPivot and Timeline.  
