---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 07/14/2021
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_pushnotify"></a> External notifications

<!--9504414-->

In a complex IT environment, you may have an automation system like [Azure Logic Apps](/azure/logic-apps/logic-apps-overview). Customers use these systems to define and control automated workflows to integrate multiple systems. You could integrate Configuration Manager into a separate automation system through the product's SDK APIs. But this process can be complex and challenging for IT professionals without a software development background.

Starting in this release, you can enable the site to send notifications to an external system or application. This feature simplifies the process by using a web service-based method. You configure [subscriptions](../../../../servers/manage/configure-alerts.md) to send these notifications. These notifications are in response to specific, defined events as they occur. For example, [status message filter rules](../../../../servers/manage/use-status-system.md#manage-status-filter-rules).

> [!NOTE]
> The external system or application defines and provides the methods that this feature calls.

When you set up this feature, the site opens a communication channel with the external system. That system can then start a complex workflow or action that doesn't exist in Configuration Manager.

These notifications use the following standardized schema:

```json
{
    "properties": {
        "EventID": {
            "type": "integer"
        },
        "EventName": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "EventPayload": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "MessageID": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "ServerName": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "SiteCode": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "Source": {
            "type": "string"
        }
    },
    "type": "object"
}
```

### Prerequisites for external notifications

- The site's service connection point needs to be in online mode. For more information, see [About the service connection point](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/about-the-service-connection-point.md).

- Currently, this feature only supports Azure Logic Apps as the external system. An active Azure subscription with rights to create a logic app is required.

- The **Full administrator** security role with **All** security scope in Configuration Manager.

- In this release, to create the objects in Configuration Manager, you need to use the PowerShell script **SetupExternalServiceNotifications.ps1**. Use the following script sample to properly get the PowerShell script to use for this feature:<!-- 10363343 -->

    ```powershell
    $FileName = ".\SetupExternalServiceNotifications.ps1"
    Invoke-WebRequest https://aka.ms/cmextnotificationscript -OutFile $FileName
    (Get-Content $FileName -Raw).Replace("`n","`r`n") | Set-Content $FileName -Force
    (Get-Content $FileName -Raw).TrimEnd("`r`n") | Set-Content $FileName -Force
    ```

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

#### Create an Azure logic app and workflow

Create an app in Azure Logic Apps to receive the notification from Configuration Manager.

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).

1. In the Azure search box, enter `logic apps`, and select **Logic Apps**.

1. Select **Add** and choose **Consumption**. This action creates a new logic app.

1. On the **Basics** tab, specify the project details as necessary for your environment: subscription name, resource group, logic app name, and region.

1. Select **Review + create**. On the validation page, confirm the details that you provided, and select **Create**.

1. Under **Next steps**, select **Go to resource**.

1. Under the section to **Start with a common trigger**, select **When a HTTP request is received**.
1. At the bottom of the trigger editor, select **Use sample payload to generate schema**.

1. Paste the following sample schema:

    ```json
    {
        "EventID":0,
        "EventName":"",
        "SiteCode":"",
        "ServerName":"",
        "MessageID":0,
        "Source":"",
        "EventPayload":""
    }
    ```

1. Select **Done** and then select **Save**.

1. Copy the generated URL for the logic app. You'll use this URL later.

1. To add a new step in the designer, select **+ New Step**. Choose an appropriate action when it receives a notification from Configuration Manager. For example:

    - To send an email, use the [Office 365 Outlook connector](/azure/connectors/connectors-create-api-office365-outlook).
    - To post a message to Teams, use the [Microsoft Teams connector](/connectors/teams/).

    Sign in if necessary and complete the required information for the action. For more information, see the [Create logic apps](/azure/logic-apps/quickstart-create-first-logic-app-workflow#add-an-action) quickstart in the Azure Logic Apps documentation.

#### Subscribe to events and create a sample event in Configuration Manager

There are two types of events that are currently supported:

- The site raises a status message that matches conditions specified in a status filter rule.
- A user requests approval for an application in Software Center.

##### Status message

1. On the site server, run **SetupExternalServiceNotifications.ps1**. Since you're running it on the site server, enter `y` to continue.

1. Select option `2` to create a new status filter rule.

1. Specify a name for the new status filter rule.

1. Select message-matching criteria for the rule, and specify values to match. Specify `0` to not use a criterion. For this example, select `0` for all criteria except **Component**. Select the number for the **SMS_REST_PROVIDER** component, which varies per site.

    The following criteria are available:

    - **Source**: Client, SMS Provider, Site Server
    - **Site code**
    - **System**
    - **Component**
    - **Message type**: Milestone, Detail, Audit
    - **Severity**: Informational, Warning, Error
    - **Message ID**
    - **Property**
    - **Property value**

    > [!TIP]
    > For more information about criteria for status message rules, see [Use the status system](../../../../servers/manage/use-status-system.md).

1. Rerun the PowerShell script. Select option `3` to create a new subscription.

1. Specify a name and description for the subscription. Then specify the logic app URL that you previously copied from the Azure portal.

1. Select the new status filter rule.

1. Select `0` to exit the script.

1. Trigger an event for the site component you chose for the status filter rule. For example, use the [Configuration Manager Service Manager](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/site-components.md#configuration-manager-service-manager) to restart the **SMS_REST_PROVIDER** component. You can also wait for the component to send a regular health status message.

##### App approval

> [!NOTE]
> This event type requires a application that requires approval and is deployed to a user collection. For more information, see [Deploy applications](../../../../../apps/deploy-use/deploy-applications.md) and [Approve applications](../../../../../apps/deploy-use/app-approval.md).

1. On the site server, run **SetupExternalServiceNotifications.ps1**. Since you're running it on the site server, enter `y` to continue.

1. Select option `3` to create a new subscription.

1. Specify a name and description for the subscription. Then specify the logic app URL that you previously copied from the Azure portal.

1. Select the appropriate event for an application request.

1. Select `0` to exit the script.

1. On a managed device, submit an app approval request from Software Center. For more information, see [Software Center user guide](../../../../understand/software-center.md#install-an-application).

#### Monitor the workflow

Within five minutes, the event triggers the logic app workflow. Check the status of the workflow in the Azure portal. Navigate to the **Runs history** page of the logic app.

For more information, see [Monitor run status, review trigger history, and set up alerts for Azure Logic Apps](/azure/logic-apps/monitor-logic-apps).

#### Troubleshooting logs

Use the following Configuration Manager log files on the site server to help troubleshoot this process:

- **ExternalNotificationsWorker.log**: Check if the queue has been processed and notifications are sent to external system.
- **statmgr.log**: Check if the status filter rules have been processed without errors

### Known issue with external notifications

If you create a status filter rule, you'll see it in the site's list of **Status filter rules** in the Configuration Manager console. If you make a change on the **Actions** tab of the rule properties, the external notification won't work.

### Script usage

When you run **SetupExternalServiceNotifications.ps1**, it detects whether it's running on a site server:

- `Y`: Continue on the current server
- `N`: Specify the FQDN of a site server to use

If the script doesn't detect a site server, it prompts for an FQDN.

The following actions are then available:

- `0`: Skip/continue
- `1`: List available subscriptions
- `2`: Create a status filter rule to expose status messages
- `3`: Create a subscription. This option is only available for the top-level site.

> [!NOTE]
> This script is only supported for sites running version 2106 or later.
