---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 03/02/2021
---

## <a name="bkmk_setup"></a> Cloud attach during site upgrade

<!--7958749-->

The Microsoft Intune family of products is an integrated solution for managing all of your devices. Cloud attach brings together Configuration Manager and Intune into a single console called Microsoft Intune admin center. If you haven't already enabled the following cloud attach features, now the site upgrade process lets you cloud attach the site:

- [Co-management](../../../../../comanage/index.yml)
- [Tenant attach](../../../../../tenant-attach/index.yml)
- [Endpoint analytics](../../../../../../analytics/index.yml)

### Prerequisites for cloud attach during upgrade

The same prerequisites apply as for tenant attach. For more information, see [Enable tenant attach](../../../../../tenant-attach/device-sync-actions.md).

The new pages in the Updates Wizard only appear when you update the site from technical preview branch version 2102 or later.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](/configmgr/core/understand/find-help#product-feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. Install the update for 2103 technical preview branch. For more information, see [Install in-console updates](../../../../servers/manage/install-in-console-updates.md).

1. On the new **Cloud attach** page of the Updates Wizard, select **Sign in**. Sign in to Microsoft Entra ID with a _Global Administrator_ account.

    The wizard enables the following options by default:

    - **Enable Microsoft Intune admin center**
    - **Enable automatic client enrollment for co-management**

    By default, Configuration Manager uses your global administrator credentials to register an app in your Microsoft Entra tenant. It uses this app to authorize synchronization of data between your on-premises site and Intune. To use an app that you already created, select **Optionally import a separate web app...**.

1. On the **Configure upload** page of the wizard, select the recommended device upload setting of **All my devices managed by Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager**. If needed, you can limit upload to a single device collection.

    The wizard enables by default the option to **Enable Endpoint analytics for devices uploaded to Microsoft Endpoint Manager**. Use Endpoint Analytics to get insights to optimize the end-user experience. For more information, see [What is Endpoint analytics?](../../../../../../analytics/overview.md)

1. On the **Enablement** page of the wizard, configure automatic device enrollment to Intune.

1. On the **Workloads** page, configure which device authority manages each supported workload. For more information, see [How to switch Configuration Manager workloads to Intune](../../../../../comanage/how-to-switch-workloads.md).

1. If you configure a workload for Pilot Intune, use the **Staging** page of the wizard to select a device collection for the pilot.

1. Complete the Updates Wizard.

After the site finishes updating to version 2103, you can take advantage of the cloud attach features.

To help troubleshoot, use the following log files:

- For upgrade progress, see **ConfigMgrSetup.log** at the root of the system drive.

- For more information on cloud attach, see **CMGatewaySyncUploadWorker.log** in the site's log directory.

### Known issue with cloud attach during site upgrade

<!-- 9360362 -->

If you opt out of cloud attach during the Updates Wizard, you still need to sign in on the **Cloud attach** page. It doesn't enable cloud attach features if you don't select them, but you can't continue the wizard unless you authenticate.
