---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 03/02/2021
---

## <a name="bkmk_hub"></a> Community hub support for configuration baselines
<!--7983121-->
Community hub now supports contributing and downloading [configuration baselines](../../../../../compliance/deploy-use/create-configuration-baselines.md) including the child configuration items. This integration allows administrators to easily share and reuse configuration baselines and configuration items. Baselines with software updates or version-specific references aren't supported. Contributing and downloading configuration baselines is also available for current branch versions of Configuration Manager. For more information, see [What's new in community hub](../../../../servers/manage/community-hub.md#bkmk_new) and [Contribute to the community hub](../../../../servers/manage/community-hub-contribute.md).

:::image type="content" source="../../media/7983121-configuration-baseline.png" alt-text="Configuration baseline in community hub":::

### Contributing a configuration baseline

When you contribute a configuration baseline, each of the child configuration items is verified. The verification starts at the lowest nested level. This means that configuration items that are grandchildren are verified before direct child configuration items are. The following process occurs to ensure the configuration baseline is usable and complete:

1. Check if the child configuration item is already in the community hub. If the configuration item doesn't exist, it's created.
   - A configuration item with software updates or version-specific references will cause an error and the contribution will fail.
1. If the configuration item already exists in the community hub, verify the contributor is the author. If the contributor isn't the author, a new configuration item is created in community hub.
1. If the contributor is the author, check for local updates to the configuration item. If the configuration item changed, update the item in the community hub.
