---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/21/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_console"></a> Improvements to Configuration Manager console

<!--4616810-->

Based on customer feedback at the Midwest Management Summit (MMS) 2019, this release includes the following improvements to the Configuration Manager console:

#### Collections tab in devices node

In the **Assets and Compliance** workspace, go to the **Devices** node, and select a device. In the details pane, switch to the new **Collections** tab. This tab lists the collections that include this device.

> [!Note]  
> This tab currently isn't available from a devices subnode under the **Device Collections** node. For example, when you select the option to **Show Members** on a collection.

#### Task sequences tab in applications node

In the **Software Library** workspace, expand **Application Management**, go to the **Applications** node, and select an application. In the details pane, switch to the new **Task sequences** tab. This tab lists the task sequences that reference this application.

#### Show collection name for scripts

In the **Monitoring** workspace, select the **Script Status** node. It now lists the **Collection Name** in addition to the ID.

#### Real-time actions from device lists

There are various ways to display a list of devices under the **Devices** node in the **Assets and Compliance** workspace.

- In the **Assets and Compliance** workspace, select the **Device Collections** node. Select a device collection, and choose the action to **Show members**. This action opens a subnode of the **Devices** node with a device list for that collection.  

    - When you select the collection subnode, you can now start **CMPivot** from the Collection group of the ribbon.  

- In the **Monitoring** workspace, select the **Deployments** node. Select a deployment, and choose the **View Status** action in the ribbon. In the deployment status pane, double-click the total assets to drill-through to a device list.  

    - When you select a device in this list, you can now start **CMPivot** and **Run Scripts** from the Device group of the ribbon.  

#### Multiselect and delete packages

In the **Software Library** workspace, expand **Application Management**, and select the **Packages** node. select more than one package. In the Package group of the ribbon, you can now delete more than one package at a time.

#### Order by program name in task sequence

In the **Software Library** workspace, expand **Operating Systems**, and select the **Task Sequences** node. Edit a task sequence, and select or add the [Install Package](../../../../../osd/understand/task-sequence-steps.md#BKMK_InstallPackage) step. If a package has more than one program, the drop-down list now sorts the programs alphabetically.

#### Correct names for client operations

In the **Monitoring** workspace, select **Client Operations**. The operation to **Switch to next Software Update Point** is now properly named.
