---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 12/14/2018
---

## <a name="bkmk_hub"></a> Download reports from the Community Hub
<!--3555936-->
This release iterates on the [Community Hub](/sccm/core/get-started/capabilities-in-technical-preview-1807#bkmk_hub) by adding support for reports. When you download a report from the hub, Configuration Manager installs it to the reporting point. You'll see downloaded reports from the community in a new **Hub** folder under reports. 

> [!Note]  
> It can take up to 10 minutes before a downloaded report is available on the reporting point.


### Prerequisite

Enable the SMS Provider to use a certificate. Manually bind a PKI-based certificate to port 443 on the server that hosts the SMS Provider role. Add the certificate to the server, and then use one of the following options:

#### Bind the certificate with IIS
If the server with the SMS Provider role has the IIS Management Console, use the **Edit Bindings** action on the default web site. Add port 443, and specify your certificate from the machine's certificate store.  

> [!Note]  
> The SMS Provider role doesn't require IIS. This procedure is using the IIS console to bind the certificate. These certificate bindings are for the machine, not any specific service.  

#### Bind the certificate with netsh
Use the netsh command line to bind the certificate:
`netsh http add sslcert ipport=0.0.0.0:443 certhash=<thumbprint> appid=<GUID>`
Where **thumbprint** is the thumbprint of the installed certificate, and **GUID** is a random GUID. 

> [!Tip]  
> Use the Windows PowerShell cmdlet `New-Guid` to generate a random GUID.  

For example,
`netsh http add sslcert ipport=0.0.0.0:443 certhash=5aef9c1f348d4d1c8675309ca3363c2a5d3b617d appid={e9f0631d-6d1c-41b4-9617-454705f9c011}`


### Known issue

If the hub fails to download a report, the console doesn't display an error message. It displays a success message when the site successfully downloads and installs the report. 

