---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 12/14/2018
---

## <a name="bkmk_console"></a> Improvements to Configuration Manager console
<!--3594151-->
Based on customer feedback at the Midwest Management Summit (MMS) Desert Edition 2018, this release includes the following improvements to the Configuration Manager console:

#### Maximize the browse registry window
In the **Assets and Compliance** workspace, expand **Compliance Settings**, and select the **Configuration Items** node. Open the properties of a configuration item, switch to the **Settings** tab, and edit a registry key setting. Next to **Hive Name**, select **Browse** to open the **Browse Registry** window. Now you can now maximize this window.  

#### Edit a task sequence by default
In the **Software Library** workspace, expand **Operating Systems**, and select the **Task Sequences** node. **Edit** is now the default action when opening a task sequence. Previously the default action was **Properties**.  

#### Go to the collection from an application deployment
In the **Software Library** workspace, expand **Application Management**, and select the **Applications** node. Select an application. In the details pane, switch to the **Deployments** tab. ... click through an application's deployment to the deployment's collection (go to collection from deployment details tab on application objects)  

#### Remove content from monitoring status
In the **Monitoring** workspace, ...remove content from a distribution point via the right-click menu in deployment monitoring (Add Remove to asset details right-click menu)  

#### Views sort by integer values
Based on your [UserVoice feedback](https://configurationmanager.uservoice.com/forums/300492-ideas/suggestions/31791718-columns-with-numbers-should-sort-using-natural-no), we made improvements to how various views sort data. If there are any others you find, send [Feedback](/sccm/core/understand/find-help#product-feedback).  

For example, in the **Deployments** node of the **Monitoring** workspace, the following columns now sort as numbers instead of string values:  

- Number Errors​
- Number In Progress​
- Number Other​
- Number Success​
- Number Unknown​  

#### Large collection warning
...moved the large collection warning further away from the search button, to prevent inadvertent clicks


