---
title: Software update management client fix for Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2403
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Client update for 2403
ms.date: 07/24/2024
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 7436fabb-acb6-4450-863d-2d0ce5360728
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: dougeby
---

# Software update management client fix for Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2403

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2403)*
## Summary of KB28458746

An update is available that fixes a software update deployment issue with Configuration Manager clients.

Features on Demand (for example, the .NET 3.5 Framework), Optional Features like the Remote Server Administration Tools (RSAT), and Language Packs fail to install on Configuration Manager clients.

Features on Demand fail to install with error 80d02002 or 800F0954, while Optional Features and Language packs indicate they couldn't install with no specific error code displayed.

Additionally, the option to check online for Microsoft Updates might be missing on Windows 10 computers.

These issues happen because Configuration Manager sets the policy *Specify source service for specific classes of Windows Updates* to use Windows Server Update Services.

This update prevents Configuration Manager from configuring the policy but doesn't remove or change any previously configured policy.
Therefore after you install this update, it might be necessary to use a group policy object (GPO) to remove previously configured policy values.
These values are under Windows Components > Windows Update > Manage updates offered from Windows Server Update Service. The corresponding registry location is HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\WindowsUpdate.
- SetPolicyDrivenUpdateSourceForDriverUpdates
- SetPolicyDrivenUpdateSourceForFeatureUpdates
- SetPolicyDrivenUpdateSourceForOtherUpdates
- SetPolicyDrivenUpdateSourceForQualityUpdates

Depending on your environment, it might also be necessary to set the *Specify settings for optional components and component repair* policy to "Download repair content and optional features directly from Windows Update". This policy is under Computer Configuration > Administrative Templates > System.

## Update information for Microsoft  Configuration Manager
The following hotfix to resolve this problem is available for download from the Microsoft Download Center:

[KB28458746](https://aka.ms/KB28458746_Payload)

After you download the hotfix, see the following documentation for installation instructions:

[Use the Update Registration Tool to import hotfixes to Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/use-the-update-registration-tool-to-import-hotfixes.md)

#### Prerequisites
To apply this hotfix, you must be using Configuration Manager, version 2403.

#### Restart information
This update doesn't initiate a [site reset](../../core/servers/manage/modify-your-infrastructure.md#bkmk_reset).

### Other installation information
After you install this update on a primary site, pre-existing secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. Configurations and settings for the secondary site aren't affected by this reinstallation. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:
   ```sql
   select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
   ```
If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.

If the value 0 is returned, the site hasn't installed all the fixes that are applied to the primary site, and you should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.

## Hotfix replacement information
This hotfix doesn't replace any previously released hotfix.

## File information
File information is available in the downloadable [KB28458746_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB28458746_FileList) text file.

## Release history
- July 24, 2024: Initial hotfix release
