sccm/core/clients/manage/remote-control/introduction-to-remote-control.md, before:

---
title: "Remote control | Microsoft Docs"
description: "Get an introduction to remote control in System Center Configuration Manager."
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 04/23/2017
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology:
  - configmgr-other
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 29350919-6a25-446b-a0da-05e8914fbb26
caps.latest.revision: 4
caps.handback.revision: 0
author: robstackmsft
ms.author: robstack
manager: angrobe

---
# Introduction to remote control in System Center Configuration Manager

*Applies to: System Center Configuration Manager (Current Branch)*

Use remote control to remotely administer, provide assistance, or view any client computer in the hierarchy. You can use remote control to troubleshoot hardware and software configuration problems on client computers and to provide support. Configuration Manager supports the remote control of workgroup computers and domain-joined computers.  

Configuration Manager also lets you configure client settings to run Windows Remote Desktop and Remote Assistance from the Configuration Manager console.  

> [!NOTE]  
>  You cannot establish a Remote Assistance session from the Configuration Manager console to a client computer that is in a workgroup. 

 You can start a remote control session in the Configuration Manager console from **Assets and Compliance > Devices**, from any device collection , from the Windows Command Prompt window, or from the Windows **Start** menu.

Commit message:

Remote Control updates to support statements- Previously we had a table with grossly out of date OS's mentioned. Removed the whole table and pointed to console support doc. those are the OS's that support the viewer. No need to duplicate here.

sccm/core/clients/manage/remote-control/introduction-to-remote-control.md, after:

---
title: "Remote control | Microsoft Docs"
description: "Get an introduction to remote control in System Center Configuration Manager."
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 04/23/2017
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology:
  - configmgr-other
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 29350919-6a25-446b-a0da-05e8914fbb26
caps.latest.revision: 4
caps.handback.revision: 0
author: robstackmsft
ms.author: robstack
manager: angrobe

---
# Introduction to remote control in System Center Configuration Manager

*Applies to: System Center Configuration Manager (Current Branch)*

Use remote control to remotely administer, provide assistance, or view any client computer in the hierarchy. You can use remote control to troubleshoot hardware and software configuration problems on client computers and to provide support. Configuration Manager supports the remote control of all workgroup computers and domain-joined computers that run supported operating systems for the Configuration Manager client. For more information, see [Supported operating systems for clients and devices for System Center Configuration Manager](../../../../core/plan-design/configs/supported-operating-systems-for-clients-and-devices.md)

Configuration Manager also lets you configure client settings to run Windows Remote Desktop and Remote Assistance from the Configuration Manager console.  

> [!NOTE]  
>  You cannot establish a Remote Assistance session from the Configuration Manager console to a client computer that is in a workgroup. 

 You can start a remote control session in the Configuration Manager console from **Assets and Compliance > Devices**, from any device collection , from the Windows Command Prompt window, or from the Windows **Start** menu.
