---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/13/2021
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_cmgsize"></a> Select VM size for CMG

<!--3555749-->

When you deploy a cloud management gateway (CMG) with a [virtual machine scale set](../../../../clients/manage/cmg/plan-cloud-management-gateway.md#virtual-machine-scale-sets), you can now choose the virtual machine (VM) size. The following three options are available:

- **Lab**: [B2s](/azure/virtual-machines/sizes-b-series-burstable)
- **Standard**: [A2_v2](/azure/virtual-machines/av2-series). This option continues to be the default setting.
- **Large**: [D2_v3](/azure/virtual-machines/dv3-dsv3-series)

This control gives you greater flexibility with your CMG deployment. You can adjust the size for test labs or if you support large environments. For example, the smaller **Lab** size is ideal for testing with a smaller number of clients at less cost. For production deployments, either use the default **Standard** size or add more capacity with the **Large** size. For more information on how these options differ in cost for your region, see the [Azure pricing calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/).

For more general information on the CMG, see [CMG overview](../../../../clients/manage/cmg/overview.md).

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/find-help.md#product-feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. [Set up a CMG](../../../../clients/manage/cmg/setup-cloud-management-gateway.md) with a virtual machine scale set.

1. On the **Settings** page of the wizard, change the **VM Size** to **Lab (B2s)**. By default, the CMG deploys with the **Standard (A2_V2)** size.

1. Complete the wizard.

Configuration Manager deploys the CMG in Azure with the smaller VM size for your technical preview deployment in a lab.

If you've already deployed a CMG with a virtual machine scale set, you can [Modify the CMG](../../../../clients/manage/cmg/modify-cloud-management-gateway.md). On the **Settings** tab, change the VM size, and then select **OK** to save the changes. Configuration Manager redeploys the service in Azure to use the new VM size.
