---
author: mestew
ms.author: mstewart
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/13/2021
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

## <a name="bkmk_dark"></a> Support Center dark and light themes
<!--8218853-->
The [Support Center](../../../../support/support-center.md) tools now offer dark and light modes. Choose to use the system default color scheme, or override the system default by selecting either the dark or light theme.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](/configmgr/core/understand/find-help#product-feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

#### Set theme for OneTrace

 **OneTrace** is the log viewer with Support Center. It works similarly to CMTrace, with many improvements. For more information, see [Support Center OneTrace](../../../../support/support-center-onetrace.md). To set the theme for OneTrace:

1. Open Support Center OneTrace.
1. Select **Window** then **Theme**.
1. Choose either the **System**, **Dark**, or **Light** theme.

:::image type="content" source="../../media/8218853-onetrace-theme.png" alt-text="Screenshot of OneTrace with the Window, and Theme menus open":::
#### Set theme for all other Support Center applications

For [all other Support Center applications](../../../../support/support-center-ui-reference.md), follow the instructions below to set the theme:

1. Open one of the following applications:
   - Support Center Client Tools
   - Support Center Client Data Collector
   - Support Center Viewer
   - Support Center Log File Viewer
1. In the upper left corner, select the arrow in the blue box to open the window menu and choose **Options**.
   - F4 is the keyboard shortcut to the **Options** menu.
1. In the **Theme** section, select either the **System**, **Dark**, or **Light** theme.
1. Select **Apply**.
