sccm/core/servers/deploy/configure/azure-services-wizard.md, before:

---
title: "Azure services wizard"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
description: "About the Azure services wizard for System Center Configuration Manager."
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 7/31/2017
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology:
  - configmgr-other
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: get-started-article
ms.assetid:  a26a653e-17aa-43eb-ab36-0e36c7d29f49
caps.latest.revision: 0
author: Brenduns
ms.author: brenduns
manager: angrobe

---
# Configure Azure services for use with Configuration Manager

*Applies to: System Center Configuration Manager (Current Branch)*

Beginning with Current Branch version 1706, the **Azure Services Wizard** is used to simplify the process of configuring the Azure services you use with Configuration Manager.

This wizard provides a common configuration experience by using an **Azure AD web app registration** to provide subscription and configuration details and authenticate communications with Azure AD. The web app replaces entering this same information each time you set up a new Configuration Manager component or service with Azure.

The following Azure services can be configured using the Azure Services wizard:
-   **Cloud Management**   
    [Enable clients to authenticate by using Azure Active Directory](/sccm/core/clients/deploy/deploy-clients-cmg-azure) (Azure AD). You can also [configure Azure AD User Discovery](/sccm/core/servers/deploy/configure/configure-discovery-methods#azureaadisc).
-   **OMS Connector**
    [Connect to Operations Management Suite](/sccm/core/clients/manage/sync-data-microsoft-operations-management-suite)   (OMS) and sync data like collections to OMS Log Analytics.
-   **Upgrade Readiness**
    [Connect to Upgrade Readiness](/sccm/core/clients/manage/upgrade/upgrade-analytics) and view client upgrade-compatibility data.
-   **Microsoft Store for Business**
    Connect to the [Microsoft Store for Business](/sccm/apps/deploy-use/manage-apps-from-the-windows-store-for-business) and get apps for your organization that you can deploy with Configuration Manager.

When you use the wizard to configure a service, several common actions are available.
These include:
-   *Configure the Azure environment*:  On the **App** page of the wizard, select the **Azure environment** that you use. See the content for each service to learn if it supports only the public Azure cloud, or if it can support a private cloud.
-   *Create or import a server app*:   On the **App** page of the wizard, you can **Create** and **Import** Azure web app registration metadata. The available options depend on the service you're configuring. In addition, some services might require an additional app. For example, the **Cloud management** service requires a **Native Client app** that is used for clients to directly authenticate communications with Azure services.


For information about Azure web apps, see [Authentication and authorization in Azure App Service](/azure/app-service/app-service-authentication-overview), and [Web Apps overview](/azure/app-service-web/app-service-web-overview).


## <a name="webapp"></a> Create or import an Azure Active Directory web app registration for use with Configuration Manager

The Azure services web app registration connects your Configuration Manager site to Azure AD and is a prerequisite for using Azure services with your infrastructure. To do this:

1.	In the **Administration** workspace of the Configuration Manager console, expand **Cloud Services**, and then click **Azure Services**.
2.	On the **Home** tab, in the **Azure Services** group, click **Configure Azure Services**.
3.	On the **Azure Services** page of the Azure Services Wizard, select the Azure service that you want to connect to Configuration Manager.
4.	On the **General** page of the wizard, specify a name, and a description for your Azure service.
5.	On the **App** page of the wizard, select your Azure environment from the list, then click **Browse** to select the *Web app* and *Native Client app* (only if required) that will be used to configure the Azure service.

    **Web app:**   Browse opens the Server App window.    
	  In the **Server App** window, select the server app you want to use, and then click **OK**. Server apps are the Azure AD web app registrations that contain the configurations for your Azure account, including your Tenant ID, Client ID, and a secret key for clients.
    If you do not have an available app, use one of the following:

	- **Create**: Automate the creation of a web app registration Azure AD based on information you input in the Configuration Manager console. Provide a friendly name for the app, the homepage URL, App ID URI, and the Secret key validity period. By default, the secret key validity period is one year.
        
        To continue, someone must now sign in with their Azure AD credentials to complete the web app creation in Azure. The account that you use to sign in to Azure doesn't need to be the same account that runs the Azure Services Wizard. After signing in to Azure, Configuration Manager creates the web app in Azure for you, including the Client ID and secret key for use with the web app. Later, you can view these from the Azure portal.

        When you use *Create* to configure a web app, Configuration Manager can create the web app for you in Azure AD.
	
    - **Import**: Enter information about an Azure AD web app registration that has already been created in the **Azure portal** to import metadata about that registration into Configuration Manager. Provide a friendly name for the app and the tenant, and then specify the Tenant ID, Client ID, and the secret key for the Azure web app that you want Configuration Manager to use. After you Verify the information, click **OK** to continue.
        > [!NOTE]
        > Before **Import** may be used, an Azure AD app registration of type *Web app / API* must be created in the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com). To read more about how to create an app registration, see [Register your application with you Azure Active Directory tenant](/azure/active-directory/active-directory-app-registration). When configuring Upgrade Readiness or Operations Management Suite you will also need to give your newly registered web app *contributor* permissions on the resource group that contains the relevant OMS workspace in order for Configuration Manager to be able to access that workspace. These permissions must be assigned before the app is imported into Configuration Manager.


    **Native Client app:**  Browse opens the Client App window.  
     In the **Client App** window, select the client app you want to use, and then click **OK**.

     If you do not have an available client app, use one of the following:
     - **Create**: To create a new Client app, click **Create**. Next provide a friendly name for the app and the Redirect URI.

         To continue, someone must now sign-in with their Azure AD credentials to complete the web app creation in Azure. The account that you use to sign-in to Azure does not need to be the same account that runs the Azure Services Wizard. After sign-in to Azure, Configuration Manager creates the native client app in Azure AD for you, including the Client ID and secret key. Later, you can view these from the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com). 

     - **Import**: Use a client app that already exists in your Azure subscription. Provide a friendly name for the app and the Client ID. Then, click **OK** to continue.

  <!--  MOVE THIS AND STEP 6 TO configure Azure AD User Discover  content
       [!TIP]  
     When you use Import, the account you use to run the wizard must have the *Read directory data* application permission in the Azure portal. This is required to set the correct permissions for the App. When you use Create, Configuration Manager creates the app with the correct permissions. However, you still must give consent to the application in the Azure portal.   -->


6.	(Only when configuring the **Cloud management** service) In the **Discovery** page of the wizard, click **Enable Azure Active Directory User Discovery**, and then click **Settings**.
In the **Azure AD User Discovery Settings** dialog box, configure a schedule for when discovery occurs. You can also enable delta discovery which checks for only new, or changed accounts in Azure AD. Learn more about [Azure AD User Discovery](/sccm/core/servers/deploy/configure/about-discovery-methods#azureaddisc).

7.	Complete the wizard.

At this point, you have completed the configuration of an Azure service in Configuration Manager. You may repeat this process to configure other Azure services.

## View the configuration of an Azure service
You can view the properties of an Azure service you have configured for use.

In the console, go to **Administration** > **Overview** > **Cloud Services** > **Azure Services**. Next, choose the service you want to view or edit, and then click **Properties**.

Commit message:

Search App Reg details for ASW

sccm/core/servers/deploy/configure/azure-services-wizard.md, after:

---
title: "Azure services wizard"
titleSuffix: "Configuration Manager"
description: "About the Azure services wizard for System Center Configuration Manager."
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 7/31/2017
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology:
  - configmgr-other
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: get-started-article
ms.assetid:  a26a653e-17aa-43eb-ab36-0e36c7d29f49
caps.latest.revision: 0
author: Brenduns
ms.author: brenduns
manager: angrobe

---
# Configure Azure services for use with Configuration Manager

*Applies to: System Center Configuration Manager (Current Branch)*

Beginning with Current Branch version 1706, the **Azure Services Wizard** is used to simplify the process of configuring the Azure services you use with Configuration Manager.

This wizard provides a common configuration experience by using an **Azure AD web app registration** to provide subscription and configuration details and authenticate communications with Azure AD. The web app replaces entering this same information each time you set up a new Configuration Manager component or service with Azure.

The following Azure services can be configured using the Azure Services wizard:
-   **Cloud Management**   
    [Enable clients to authenticate by using Azure Active Directory](/sccm/core/clients/deploy/deploy-clients-cmg-azure) (Azure AD). You can also [configure Azure AD User Discovery](/sccm/core/servers/deploy/configure/configure-discovery-methods#azureaadisc).
-   **OMS Connector**
    [Connect to Operations Management Suite](/sccm/core/clients/manage/sync-data-microsoft-operations-management-suite)   (OMS) and sync data like collections to OMS Log Analytics.
-   **Upgrade Readiness**
    [Connect to Upgrade Readiness](/sccm/core/clients/manage/upgrade/upgrade-analytics) and view client upgrade-compatibility data.
-   **Microsoft Store for Business**
    Connect to the [Microsoft Store for Business](/sccm/apps/deploy-use/manage-apps-from-the-windows-store-for-business) and get apps for your organization that you can deploy with Configuration Manager.

When you use the wizard to configure a service, several common actions are available.
These include:
-   *Configure the Azure environment*:  On the **App** page of the wizard, select the **Azure environment** that you use. See the content for each service to learn if it supports only the public Azure cloud, or if it can support a private cloud.
-   *Create or import a server app*:   On the **App** page of the wizard, you can **Create** and **Import** Azure web app registration metadata. The available options depend on the service you're configuring. In addition, some services might require an additional app. For example, the **Cloud management** service requires a **Native Client app** that is used for clients to directly authenticate communications with Azure services.


For information about Azure web apps, see [Authentication and authorization in Azure App Service](/azure/app-service/app-service-authentication-overview), and [Web Apps overview](/azure/app-service-web/app-service-web-overview).


## <a name="webapp"></a> Create or import an Azure Active Directory web app registration for use with Configuration Manager

The Azure services web app registration connects your Configuration Manager site to Azure AD and is a prerequisite for using Azure services with your infrastructure. To do this:

1.	In the **Administration** workspace of the Configuration Manager console, expand **Cloud Services**, and then click **Azure Services**.
2.	On the **Home** tab, in the **Azure Services** group, click **Configure Azure Services**.
3.	On the **Azure Services** page of the Azure Services Wizard, select the Azure service that you want to connect to Configuration Manager.
4.	On the **General** page of the wizard, specify a name, and a description for your Azure service.
5.	On the **App** page of the wizard, select your Azure environment from the list, then click **Browse** to select the *Web app* and *Native Client app* (only if required) that will be used to configure the Azure service.

    **Web app:**   Browse opens the Server App window.    
	  In the **Server App** window, select the server app you want to use, and then click **OK**. Server apps are the Azure AD web app registrations that contain the configurations for your Azure account, including your Tenant ID, Client ID, and a secret key for clients.
    If you do not have an available app, use one of the following:

	- **Create**: Automate the creation of a web app registration Azure AD based on information you input in the Configuration Manager console. Provide a friendly name for the app, the homepage URL, App ID URI, and the Secret key validity period. By default, the secret key validity period is one year.
        
        To continue, someone must now sign in with their Azure AD credentials to complete the web app creation in Azure. The account that you use to sign in to Azure doesn't need to be the same account that runs the Azure Services Wizard. After signing in to Azure, Configuration Manager creates the web app in Azure for you, including the Client ID and secret key for use with the web app. Later, you can view these from the Azure portal.

        When you use *Create* to configure a web app, Configuration Manager can create the web app for you in Azure AD.
	
    - **Import**: Enter information about an Azure AD web app registration that has already been created in the **Azure portal** to import metadata about that registration into Configuration Manager. Provide a friendly name for the app and the tenant, and then specify the Tenant ID, Client ID, and the secret key for the Azure web app that you want Configuration Manager to use. After you Verify the information, click **OK** to continue.
        > [!NOTE]
        > Before **Import** may be used, an Azure AD app registration of type *Web app / API* must be created in the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com). To read more about how to create an app registration, see [Register your application with you Azure Active Directory tenant](/azure/active-directory/active-directory-app-registration). When configuring Upgrade Readiness or Operations Management Suite you will also need to give your newly registered web app *contributor* permissions on the resource group that contains the relevant OMS workspace in order for Configuration Manager to be able to access that workspace. To do this you will have to search for the name of the app registration in the **Add users** blade when assigning the permission. This the same process that must be followed when [providing Configuration Manager with permissions to OMS](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/log-analytics/log-analytics-sccm#provide-configuration-manager-with-permissions-to-oms) for connections to [Log Analytics](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/log-analytics/log-analytics-sccm).These permissions must be assigned before the app is imported into Configuration Manager.


    **Native Client app:**  Browse opens the Client App window.  
     In the **Client App** window, select the client app you want to use, and then click **OK**.

     If you do not have an available client app, use one of the following:
     - **Create**: To create a new Client app, click **Create**. Next provide a friendly name for the app and the Redirect URI.

         To continue, someone must now sign-in with their Azure AD credentials to complete the web app creation in Azure. The account that you use to sign-in to Azure does not need to be the same account that runs the Azure Services Wizard. After sign-in to Azure, Configuration Manager creates the native client app in Azure AD for you, including the Client ID and secret key. Later, you can view these from the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com). 

     - **Import**: Use a client app that already exists in your Azure subscription. Provide a friendly name for the app and the Client ID. Then, click **OK** to continue.

  <!--  MOVE THIS AND STEP 6 TO configure Azure AD User Discover  content
       [!TIP]  
     When you use Import, the account you use to run the wizard must have the *Read directory data* application permission in the Azure portal. This is required to set the correct permissions for the App. When you use Create, Configuration Manager creates the app with the correct permissions. However, you still must give consent to the application in the Azure portal.   -->


6.	(Only when configuring the **Cloud management** service) In the **Discovery** page of the wizard, click **Enable Azure Active Directory User Discovery**, and then click **Settings**.
In the **Azure AD User Discovery Settings** dialog box, configure a schedule for when discovery occurs. You can also enable delta discovery which checks for only new, or changed accounts in Azure AD. Learn more about [Azure AD User Discovery](/sccm/core/servers/deploy/configure/about-discovery-methods#azureaddisc).

7.	Complete the wizard.

At this point, you have completed the configuration of an Azure service in Configuration Manager. You may repeat this process to configure other Azure services.

## View the configuration of an Azure service
You can view the properties of an Azure service you have configured for use.

In the console, go to **Administration** > **Overview** > **Cloud Services** > **Azure Services**. Next, choose the service you want to view or edit, and then click **Properties**.
