---
title: Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2103
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Update rollup for Configuration Manager 2103
ms.date: 06/11/2021
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: reference
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2103

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2103)*

## Summary of KB10036164
This article describes issues that are fixed in this update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2103. This update applies both to customers who opted in through a PowerShell script to the early update ring deployment, and customers who installed the globally available release.
For more information on changes in Configuration Manager version 2103, see:
- [What’s new in version 2103 of Configuration Manager current branch](../../core/plan-design/changes/whats-new-in-version-2103.md)
- [Summary of changes in Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2103](../../hotfix/2103/9210721.md)

## Issues that are fixed

<!-- 9366393 -->

- Deployment of an operating system image may fail under the following conditions:
	- The image is deployed using standalone media, such as a USB drive.
	- The computer restarts between two **Install Application** task sequence steps.
	- The first **Install Application** task sequence step does not have the **Continue on error** option enabled.

   When this issue occurs, errors resembling the following are recorded in the `smsts.log`.
   ```text
	App install failed.
	...
	Install application action failed: '{*application_name*}'. Error Code 0x80004005
	Sending error status message
	The client GUID must be set in an environment variable.
	GetClientIDs() failed. 80004005
	GetClientIDs (sClientIdentity, sClientGUID_Ext), HRESULT=80004005
	Non fatal error 0x80004005 in sending task sequence execution status message to Management Point
	Install application action cannot continue. ContinueOnErrorFlag is set to false.
	Install Static Applications failed, hr=0x80004005
	Process completed with exit code 2147500037
	Failed to run the action: Install Application. Error -2147467259
   ```

<!-- 9850396 --> 
 - The **Install Package** task sequence step repeats indefinitely under the following conditions:
    - Packages defined with the **Set Dynamic Variables** task are used as part of the **Install Package** task sequence step.
	- The same program is called more than once, and that program returns a pending reboot exit code of 3010.
	- The computer is rebooted after the second run of the program that returns the 3010 exit code.
 
<!-- 9850417 -->
- The **Import-CMQuery** PowerShell cmdlet fails with a MOF compilation error after updating to Configuration Manager version 2103.

<!-- 9850457, 9850479 -->
- Selecting the **Task Sequences** node after selecting the **References** tab in deployment details causes the console to terminate unexpectedly.

<!-- 9855756 -->
- Content for Microsoft updates fails to download if an Alternate Content Provider (ACP) is in use, and the client switches to a different network during the download process. An error resembling the following is recorded in the `ctm.log` file.
   ```text
   CTM job {GUID} encountered error 0x80070057 during download ('Sccm Client is IBCM')- The error is non retriable.
   CTM encountered error processing reply from DTS. Code 0x80004004
   ```
   
<!-- 9866492 -->
- Client installation from a cloud management gateway (CMG) fails if the client is unable to contact the internal management point. The `ccmsetup.log` file contains an error resembling the following.
   ```text
   Failed to correctly receive a WEBDAV HTTPS request.. (StatusCode at WinHttpQueryHeaders: 405)
   ```
   
<!-- 9875674 -->
- Applications do not appear as expected in Software Center if there is a single quotation mark in the **Keywords** field of the application's properties. The `cidownloader.log` and `cistore.log` files contain errors resembling the following.
   ```text
   m_spCIStore->StoreCI(spIEnum), HRESULT=87d00215
   CCIStore::GetCIEx - Requested CI ModelName ScopeId_{GUID}/Application_{GUID}, Version 25 not found in [Store] (0x87d00215).
   ```
   
<!-- 9902414 -->
- Task sequences that run with the **Run as high performance power plan** option enabled don't revert to the previously defined power plan when they finish running.

<!-- 9902434 -->
- If a required scheduled task sequence attempts to run during an in-place upgrade, and the client is in provisioning mode, the scheduled task sequence and the upgrade fail. This happens because the scheduled task sequence fails when the client is in provisioning mode, then cleans up the task sequence environment. This, in turn, causes the in-place upgrade to fail. The `smsts.log` contains errors resembling the following.
   ```text
   Install Software failed to run command line, hr=0x80070002
   Process completed with exit code 2147942402
   Failed to run the action: Collect Post-Upgrade Computer Data. Error -2147024894
   Management Point name must be set in an environment variable
   ```
   
<!-- 9920873 -->
- The **Apply Operating System** task fails if you set the option **Logical drive letter stored in a variable** under the **Destination** field to the variable **_OSDDetectedWinDrive**. The variable incorrectly adds a backslash character to the drive letter, causing later operations to fail. Errors resembling the following are recorded in the `smsts.log` file.
   ```text
   Set command line: "OSDApplyOS.exe" /image:PRI00001,1 /target:C:\ /runfromnet:False
   ...
   CDisk::IsLocalHardDrive(volume), HRESULT=80070057
   The drive letter 125 does not correspond to a local hard drive.
   The requested target could not be resolved to a valid volume on this computer. Check your task sequence to ensure this drive is correct and that it is being created
   The parameter is incorrect. (Error: 80070057; Source: Windows)
   Process completed with exit code 2147942487
   Failed to run the action: Apply Operating System. Error -2147024809
   ...
   The execution of the group (Install Operating System) has failed and the execution has been aborted. An action failed. Error 0x80004004
   Failed to run the last action: Apply Operating System. Result -2147024809. Execution of task sequence failed.
   ```

<!-- 9978094 -->
- The deployment of an operating system using boot media over a cloud management gateway may fail if the management point is configured for Internet-only communication. Errors resembling the following are recorded in the `TSMBootstrap.log` file.
   ```text
   Error. Status code 500 - (CMGConnector_InternalServerError) returned
   RequestMPKeyInformation: Send() failed.
   MPKeyInformation.RequestMPKeyInformationForMedia(szTrustedRootKey), HRESULT=80004005
   Failed to get information for MP
   ```
   
 <!-- 9981955, 9929362 -->
 - The SMS Executive Service (`smsexec.exe`) terminates unexpectedly under either of the following conditions.
    - If a request timeout occurs during the Azure Active Directory group discovery process. 
	- During rule processing if an automatic deployment rule (`ADR`) contains fewer than two rule actions.
	
## Hotfixes that are included in this update

- KB [9603111](../../hotfix/2103/9603111.md) Update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2103, early update ring
- KB [9833643](../../hotfix/2103/9833643.md) Console update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2103

## Update information for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2103

This update is available in the Updates and Servicing node of the Configuration Manager console for environments that were installed by using early update ring or globally available builds of version 2103.

Members of the Configuration Manager Technology Adoption Program (TAP) must first apply the private TAP rollup before this update is displayed.

To verify which build is in use, look for a Package GUID by adding the Package GUID column to the details pane of the Updates and Servicing node in the console. The update applies to installations from packages that have the following GUIDs:

- **41F02C4C-BB4B-4B8D-9299-059860339DAB**
- **ADADCCD5-B406-4752-91C1-C67F3024A8BD**
- **A052B360-A8CF-43CE-BFF8-D5DF4D14DAEC**
- **6232ED65-9931-4C7D-9A6B-DD99B56478DB**
- **A682F854-A8AF-4F25-83B0-D9CFDFAFE659**
- **8F4FEBB7-F5C4-4D73-893F-29042015727F**

The update is also applicable to TAP builds with the private TAP rollup (**1F2BD028-C818-4626-B088-49E354775B6F**) installed.
New installations from 2103 media, as opposed to updates from prior versions, will not have any package GUIDs listed.

### Restart information

This update does not require a computer restart but will initiate a [site reset](../../core/servers/manage/modify-your-infrastructure.md#bkmk_reset) after installation.

### Additional installation information

After you install this update on a primary site, pre-existing secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. Configurations and settings for the secondary site are not affected by this reinstallation. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:
   ```code
   select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
   ```
If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.

If the value 0 is returned, the site has not installed all the fixes that are applied to the primary site, and you should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.

## Version information
The following major components are updated to the versions specified:

| Component | Version |
|---|---|
| Configuration Manager console | 5.2103.1059.3100 |
| Client | 5.0.9049.1035 |

## File information
File information is available in the downloadable [KB10036164_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB10036164_FileList) text file.

## Release history
- June 11, 2021: Initial hotfix release

## References
[Updates and servicing for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/updates.md)
