---
title: Unable to move site database to SQL Always On availability group in Configuration Manager, version 2103
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Update for SQL availability group move issue in Configuration Manager 2103
ms.date: 06/25/2021
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: reference
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: apoorvseth
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.reviewer: mstewart,aaroncz 
ms.collection: tier3
---

# Unable to move site database to SQL Always On availability group in Configuration Manager, version 2103

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2103)*

## Summary of KB10216365

After you upgrade to current branch version 2103, performing Configuration Manager site maintenance to **Modify SQL Server configuration** for moving the site database to an availability group fails. An error resembling the following is recorded in the `ConfigMgrSetup.log` file on affected site server.

```text
Not able to decrypt using key stored in operating system.
Successfully refreshed the encrypted site master key from database.
ERROR: Failed to retrieve SQL Server certificate.
ERROR: Failed to create SQL Always On certificate.
```

## Update information for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager, version 2103

The following hotfix to resolve this problem is available for download from the Microsoft Download Center:  

- [Download this hotfix now](https://download.microsoft.com/download/d/f/9/df977979-a7a1-4d72-bbb0-b1ca24801e2c/KB10216365/CM2103-KB10216365.ConfigMgr.Update.exe).

After you download the hotfix, see the following documentation for installation instructions:  

- [Use the Update Registration Tool to import hotfixes to Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/use-the-update-registration-tool-to-import-hotfixes.md)

### Prerequisites

To apply this hotfix, you must have the following:

- Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2103
- [KB10036164](./10036164.md) Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2103

### Restart information

This update does not require a computer restart.

### Additional installation information

After you install this update on a primary site, pre-existing secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. Configurations and settings for the secondary site are not affected by this reinstallation. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:

```sql
select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
```

If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.

If the value 0 is returned, the site has not installed all the fixes that are applied to the primary site, and you should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.

## File information

File information is available in the downloadable [KB10216365_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB10216365_FileList) text file.

## Release history

- July 2, 2021: Initial hotfix release

## References

[Updates and servicing for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/updates.md)

[Configure a SQL Server Always On availability group for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/deploy/configure/configure-aoag.md)