---
title: Tenant attach update for Configuration Manager current branch version 2103
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Tenant attach update for Configuration Manager 2103
ms.date: 08/25/2021
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: reference
author: vinaypamnani-msft
ms.author: vinpa
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Tenant attach update for Configuration Manager current branch, version 2103

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2103)*

## Summary of KB10582136

<!-- 10582123, 10582136, 10582409 -->

An update is available that contains fixes for reporting device-level details about Endpoint Security policies deployed to Configuration Manager Clients.

## Update information for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager, version 2103

This update is available in the **Updates and Servicing** node of the Configuration Manager console for environments that have installed the following update rollup.

- [KB10036164](../../hotfix/2103/10036164.md): Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2103

## Update replacement information

This update replaces the below update.

- [KB10216365](../../hotfix/2103/10216365.md): Unable to move site database to SQL Always On availability group in Configuration Manager, version 2103
- [KB10372804](../../hotfix/2103/10372804.md): Using the MBAM Agent to escrow BitLocker recovery keys generates excessive policies in Configuration Manager, version 2103

## Restart information

This update does not require a computer restart.

## Additional installation information

After you install this update on a primary site, pre-existing secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. Configurations and settings for the secondary site are not affected by this reinstallation. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:

```sql
select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
```

- If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.
- If the value 0 is returned, the site has not installed all the fixes that are applied to the primary site, and you should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.

## File information

File information is available in the downloadable [KB10582136_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB10582136_FileList) text file.

## Release history

- August 25, 2021: Initial hotfix release

## References

[Updates and servicing for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/updates.md)
