---
title: Client update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2103
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Client update for 2103
ms.date: 08/25/2021
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: reference
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: apoorvseth
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.reviewer: mstewart,aaroncz 
ms.collection: tier3
---

# Client update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2103

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2103)*

## Summary of KB10589155

An update is available to resolve the following issues with the Configuration Manager client.

<!-- 10570456 -->
- Client may fail to download Tenant Attach Endpoint Security policy, if the site is configured to use **HTTPS only**.

<!-- 10589036 -->
- Clients are incorrectly considered to be in coexistence mode if Intune enrollment fails.

<!-- 10589155-->
- Clients without a PKI certificate, using Azure Active Directory authentication may attempt to register with the site multiple times.

## Update information for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager, version 2103

An update to resolve this issue is available in the **Updates and Servicing** node of the Configuration Manager console for environments that have installed the following update rollup.

- [KB10036164](../../hotfix/2103/10036164.md): Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2103

## Restart information

This update does not require a computer restart but will initiate a [site reset](../../core/servers/manage/modify-your-infrastructure.md#bkmk_reset) after installation.

## Additional installation information

After you install this update on a primary site, pre-existing secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. Configurations and settings for the secondary site are not affected by this reinstallation. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:

```sql
select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
```

- If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.
- If the value 0 is returned, the site has not installed all the fixes that are applied to the primary site, and you should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.

## Version information

The following major components are updated to the versions specified:

| Component | Version        |
|-----------|----------------|
| Client    | 5.00.9049.1043 |

## File information

File information is available in the downloadable [KB10589155_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB10589155_FileList) text file.

## Release history

- August 25, 2021: Initial hotfix release

## References

[Updates and servicing for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/updates.md)
