---
title: Console update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2103
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Console update for 2103
ms.date: 05/11/2021
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: reference
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: apoorvseth
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.reviewer: mstewart,aaroncz 
ms.collection: tier3
---

# Console update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2103

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2103)*

## Summary of KB9833643

An update is available to resolve the following issues with the Configuration Manager console after updating to version 2103.

- Task sequences, or task sequence steps, created before installation of version 2103 update fail to import. The Import Task Sequence Wizard displays the following error.
	```text
	One or more errors occurred result may be incomplete
	System.NullReferenceException
	Object reference not set to an instance of an object.
	```
 
- No data is shown in the Windows 10 servicing dashboard, even after completing the troubleshooting steps listed in the following support article.
	[The Windows 10 servicing dashboard shows no data](/troubleshoot/mem/configmgr/windows-10-servicing-dashboard-empty)
  
  
- The *New-CMBootableMedia* PowerShell cmdlet returns the error `Could not find the ConfigMgr UI installation directory` after updating to version 2103.

## Update information for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager, version 2103
The following hotfix to resolve this problem is available for download from the Microsoft Download Center:

[Download this hotfix now](https://download.microsoft.com/download/1/a/0/1a0875a0-fe0a-458d-ab6a-5a813c8c960d/CM2103-KB9833643.ConfigMgr.Update.exe).

After you download the hotfix, see the following documentation for installation instructions:

[Use the Update Registration Tool to import hotfixes to Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/use-the-update-registration-tool-to-import-hotfixes.md)

#### Prerequisites

To apply this hotfix, you must have Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager, version 2103 installed in addition to the following update:
[KB9603111](./9603111.md) Update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2103, early update ring

#### Restart information

This update does not require a computer restart.

### Additional installation information

After you install this update on a primary site, pre-existing secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. Configurations and settings for the secondary site are not affected by this reinstallation. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:
   ```code
   select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
   ```
If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.

If the value 0 is returned, the site has not installed all the fixes that are applied to the primary site, and you should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.

## Version information
The following major components are updated to the versions specified:

|Component |Version |
|---|---|
| Configuration Manager console | 5.2103.1059.2300 |

## File information
File information is available in the downloadable [KB9833643_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB9833643_FileList) text file.

## Release history
- May 11, 2021: Initial hotfix release

## References
[Updates and servicing for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/updates.md)