---
title: Client discovery data update for Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2309
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Client update for 2309
ms.date: 12/27/2023
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 9eed1444-57d5-4cbe-a894-92bfbe1fc8a4
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: dougeby
---

# Client discovery data update for Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2309

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2309)*
## Summary of KB26129847

An update is available that fixes a discovery data issue with Configuration Manager clients.

Co-managed clients incorrectly send a discovery data record (DDR) after the computer or the SMS Agent Host service (CCMExe.exe) restarts. In larger environments, this leads to a backlog of DDRs to be processed.

## Update information for Microsoft  Configuration Manager
The following hotfix to resolve this problem is available for download from the Microsoft Download Center:

[KB26129847](https://aka.ms/KB26129847_Payload)

After you download the hotfix, see the following documentation for installation instructions:

[Use the Update Registration Tool to import hotfixes to Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/use-the-update-registration-tool-to-import-hotfixes.md)

#### Prerequisites
To apply this hotfix, you must be using Configuration Manager, version 2309.

#### Restart information
This update will initiate a [site reset](../../core/servers/manage/modify-your-infrastructure.md#bkmk_reset).

### Other installation information
After you install this update on a primary site, pre-existing secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. Configurations and settings for the secondary site aren't affected by this reinstallation. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:
   ```sql
   select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
   ```
If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.

If the value 0 is returned, the site hasn't installed all the fixes that are applied to the primary site, and you should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.

## Hotfix replacement information
This hotfix doesn't replace any previously released hotfix.

## File information
File information is available in the downloadable [KB26129847_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB26129847_FileList) text file.

## Release history
- December 27, 2023: Initial hotfix release
