---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/26/2020
---

## Report setup and upgrade failures to Microsoft
<!--5622909-->
 If the setup or update process fails to complete successfully, you can now report the error directly to Microsoft. If a failure occurs, the **Report update error to Microsoft** button is enabled. When you use the button, an interactive wizard opens allowing you to provide more information to us. In technical previews, this button is always enabled even when the setup completes successfully.
 
 When running setup from the media rather than the console, you'll also be given the **Report update error to Microsoft** option if setup fails. 


 :::image type="content" source="../../media/5622909-report-error.png" alt-text="Report update error to Microsoft button in the ribbon" lightbox="../../media/5622909-report-error.png":::

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to **Administration** > **Overview** > **Updates and Servicing**.
1. Select an update then click **Report update error to Microsoft** in the ribbon.
1. Before you submit the feedback, you'll be given options to:
   - Attach additional files
   - Provide your email address if you're willing to be contacted about the error.
1. When you submit feedback, you'll be given a transaction ID for the feedback. A status message is also generated with this information.
   - Message ID 53900 is a successful submission.
   - Message ID 53901 is a failed submission.