---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/26/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_cmpivot"></a> Tenant attach: CMPivot from the admin center
<!--6024392-->
Bring the power of CMPivot to the Microsoft Intune admin center. Allow additional personas, like Helpdesk, to be able to initiate real-time queries from the cloud against an individual ConfigMgr managed device and return the results back to the admin center. This gives all the traditional benefits of CMPivot, which allows IT Admins and other designated personas the ability to quickly assess the state of devices in their environment and take action.

For more information about CMPivot, see:
- [CMPivot sample scripts](../../../../../tenant-attach/cmpivot-samples-attached.md)
- [CMPivot overview](../../../../../tenant-attach/cmpivot-overview-attached.md).

> [!Important]
> This is a preview experience. The final location will be the devices blade in Microsoft Intune admin center.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

#### Prerequisites

You'll need to meet all of the prerequisites for [Tenant attach: ConfigMgr client details](../../technical-preview-2004.md#bkmk_mem):

- An environment that's [tenant attached with uploaded devices](../../../../../tenant-attach/device-sync-actions.md).
- One of the following browsers:
  - Microsoft Edge, version 77 and later
  - Google Chrome
- The user account has been discovered with both [Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) user discovery](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/about-discovery-methods.md#azureaddisc) and [Active Directory user discovery](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/about-discovery-methods.md#bkmk_aboutUser).
  - Meaning the user account needs to be a synced user object in Azure.

Additionally, the following items are required to use CMPivot:

- Upgrade the target devices to the latest version of the Configuration Manager client.  
- Target clients require a minimum of PowerShell version 4.
- To gather data for the following entities, target clients require PowerShell version 5.0:  
  - Administrators
  - Connection
  - IPConfig
  - SMBConfig

#### Permissions

The user account needs the following permissions:

- The **Read** permission for the device's **Collection** in Configuration Manager.
- The **Admin User** role for the Configuration Manager Microservice application in Azure AD.
  - Add the role in Azure AD from **Enterprise applications** > **Configuration Manager Microservice** > **Users and groups** > **Add user**. Groups are supported if you have Azure AD premium.

- Configuration Manager permissions for CMPivot:
  - **Read** permission on the **SMS Scripts** object
  - **Run Scripts** permission on the **Collection**.
    - Alternatively, you can use **Run CMPivot** on **Collection**.
    - **Run Scripts** is a super set of the **Run CMPivot** permission.
  - **Read** permission on **Inventory Reports**
  - The default scope.

#### Use CMPivot from the admin center preview

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace and select the **Devices** node.
1. Right-click on a device that's been uploaded to Microsoft Intune.
1. In the right-click menu, select **Start** > **Admin Center Preview** to open the preview in your browser.
2. Select **CMPivot**, type your query in the script pane, then click **Run**.
   - For query examples, see [CMPivot sample scripts](../../../../../tenant-attach/cmpivot-samples-attached.md).
   -  For information about CMPivot entities, operators, and functions, see [CMPivot overview](../../../../../tenant-attach/cmpivot-overview-attached.md).
