---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/26/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_apps"></a> Tenant attach: Install an application from the admin center
<!--6024389-->
You can now initiate an application install in real time for a tenant attached device from the Microsoft Endpoint Management admin center.

> [!Important]
> This is a preview experience. The final location will be the devices blade in Microsoft Intune admin center.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.


#### Prerequisites

You'll need to meet all of the prerequisites for [Tenant attach: ConfigMgr client details](../../technical-preview-2004.md#bkmk_mem):

- An environment that's [tenant attached with uploaded devices](../../../../../tenant-attach/device-sync-actions.md).
- One of the following browsers:
  - Microsoft Edge, version 77 and later
  - Google Chrome
- The user account has been discovered with both [Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) user discovery](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/about-discovery-methods.md#azureaddisc) and [Active Directory user discovery](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/about-discovery-methods.md#bkmk_aboutUser).
  - Meaning the user account needs to be a synced user object in Azure.

Additionally, you'll need the following items:

- Enable the optional feature **Approve application requests for users per device**. For more information, see [Enable optional features from updates](../../../../servers/manage/optional-features.md).
- At least one application deployed to a device collection with the **An administrator must approve a request for this application on the device** option set on the deployment. For more information, see [Approve applications](../../../../../apps/deploy-use/app-approval.md#bkmk_opt).
   - User targeted applications or applications without the approval option set don't appear in the application list. 

#### Permissions

The user account needs the following permissions:

- The **Read** permission for the device's **Collection** in Configuration Manager.
- The **Read** permission for **Application** in Configuration Manager.
- The **Approve** permission for **Application** in Configuration Manager.
- The **Admin User** role for the Configuration Manager Microservice application in Azure AD.
  - Add the role in Azure AD from **Enterprise applications** > **Configuration Manager Microservice** > **Users and groups** > **Add user**. Groups are supported if you have Azure AD premium.
   
#### Deploy an application from the admin center

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace and select the **Devices** node.
1. Right-click on a device that's been uploaded to Microsoft Intune.
1. In the right-click menu, select **Start** > **Admin Center Preview** to open the preview in your browser.
1. Go to **Applications** in the admin center preview. 
1. Select the application and click **Install**.

#### Known issues

In this technical preview, you can only use alphanumeric characters when searching applications.
