---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/28/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_tsmedia"></a> Task sequence media support for cloud-based content

<!--6209223-->

Task sequence media can now download cloud-based content. For example, you send a USB key to a user at a remote office to reimage their device. Or an office that has a local PXE server, but you want devices to prioritize cloud services as much as possible. Instead of further taxing the WAN to download large OS deployment content, boot media and PXE deployments can now get content from cloud-based sources. For example, a cloud management gateway (CMG) that you enable to share content.

> [!NOTE]
> The device still needs an intranet connection to the management point.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. Enable the following client setting in the **Cloud Services** group: **Allow access to cloud distribution point**. Make sure the client setting is deployed to the target clients. For more information, see the following articles:

    - [How to configure client settings](../../../../clients/deploy/configure-client-settings.md)
    - [About client settings - Cloud services](../../../../clients/deploy/about-client-settings.md#cloud-services)

1. For the boundary group that the client is in, associate the content-enabled CMG or cloud distribution point site systems. For more information, see [Configure a boundary group](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/boundary-group-procedures.md#configure-a-boundary-group).

1. On the same boundary group, enable the following option: **Prefer cloud based sources over on-premise sources**. For more information, see [Boundary group options for peer downloads](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/boundary-group-options.md).

1. Distribute the content referenced by the task sequence to the content-enabled CMG or cloud distribution point.

1. Start the task sequence from boot media or PXE on the client.

When the task sequence runs, it will download content from the cloud-based sources. Review **smsts.log** on the client.
