---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/26/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_scripts"></a> Tenant attach: Run Scripts from the admin center
<!--6234688-->
Bring the power of the Configuration Manager on-premises Run Scripts feature to the Microsoft Intune admin center. Allow additional personas, like Helpdesk, to run PowerShell scripts from the cloud against an individual Configuration Manager managed device. This gives all the traditional benefits of PowerShell scripts that have already been defined and approved by the Configuration Manager admin to this new environment.

> [!Important]
> This is a preview experience. The final location will be the devices blade in Microsoft Intune admin center.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

#### Prerequisites

You'll need to meet all of the prerequisites for [Tenant attach: ConfigMgr client details](../../technical-preview-2004.md#bkmk_mem):

- An environment that's [tenant attached with uploaded devices](../../../../../tenant-attach/device-sync-actions.md).
- One of the following browsers:
  - Microsoft Edge, version 77 and later
  - Google Chrome
- The user account has been discovered with both [Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) user discovery](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/about-discovery-methods.md#azureaddisc) and [Active Directory user discovery](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/about-discovery-methods.md#bkmk_aboutUser).
  - Meaning the user account needs to be a synced user object in Azure.

Additionally, you'll need the following items:

- Configuration Manager clients must be running the latest version client.
- To run PowerShell scripts, the client must be running PowerShell version 3.0 or later.
   - If a script you run contains functionality from a later version of PowerShell, the client on which you run the script must be running that later version of PowerShell.
- At least one script that is already created and approved in Configuration Manager.
   - Scripts that have parameters aren't supported at this time and won't be visible in the Microsoft Intune admin center.
   - Only scripts that are already created and approved appear in the admin center. For more information on approving scripts, see [Approve or deny a script](../../../../../apps/deploy-use/create-deploy-scripts.md#run-script-authors-and-approvers).


#### Permissions

The user account needs the following permissions:

- The **Read** permission for the device's **Collection** in Configuration Manager.
- The **Admin User** role for the Configuration Manager Microservice application in Azure AD.
  - Add the role in Azure AD from **Enterprise applications** > **Configuration Manager Microservice** > **Users and groups** > **Add user**. Groups are supported if you have Azure AD premium.
- To use scripts, you must be a member of the appropriate Configuration Manager security role. For more information, see [Security scopes for run scripts](../../../../../apps/deploy-use/create-deploy-scripts.md#bkmk_ScriptRoles).
- To run scripts, the account must have **Run Script** permissions for **Collections**.

#### Run a script

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace and select the **Devices** node.
1. Right-click on a device that's been uploaded to Microsoft Intune.
1. In the right-click menu, select **Start** > **Admin Center Preview** to open the preview in your browser.
1. Select **Scripts**, then select one of your scripts. If needed, you can search by script name.
1. Click **Run script** from the page that appears on the right.
   - You'll be notified your script has started. The **Run script** button will be disabled until it's complete.
   - The **State** column is only valid while you're on the page. The state is reset to `Ready` if you navigate to another page.
1. When the script completes, the results will show in the **Output** pane. You can copy the text of the script output.


:::image type="content" source="../../media/6234688-script-output.png" alt-text="Script output in the admin center" lightbox="../../media/6234688-script-output.png":::