---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/28/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_tsbitlocker"></a> Improvements to BitLocker task sequence steps

<!--6995601-->

Based on your UserVoice feedback, you can now specify the **Disk encryption mode** on the [Enable BitLocker](../../../../../osd/understand/task-sequence-steps.md#BKMK_EnableBitLocker) and [Pre-provision BitLocker](../../../../../osd/understand/task-sequence-steps.md#BKMK_PreProvisionBitLocker) task sequence steps. By default, the steps continue to use the default encryption method for the OS version. Use the new setting to select one of the following encryption algorithms: AES_128, AES_256, XTS_AES256, or XTS_AES128.

If the step runs on a version of Windows that doesn't support the specified algorithm, it falls back to the OS default. In this circumstance, the task sequence engine sends status message 11911.

If you use the following PowerShell cmdlets to configure these task sequence steps, use the new **EncryptionMethod** parameter:

- [Set-CMTSStepEnableBitLocker](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/module/configurationmanager/Set-CMTSStepEnableBitLocker?view=sccm-ps)
- [New-CMTSStepEnableBitLocker](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/module/configurationmanager/New-CMTSStepEnableBitLocker?view=sccm-ps)
- [Set-CMTSStepOfflineEnableBitLocker](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/module/configurationmanager/Set-CMTSStepOfflineEnableBitLocker?view=sccm-ps)
- [New-CMTSStepOfflineEnableBitLocker](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/module/configurationmanager/New-CMTSStepOfflineEnableBitLocker?view=sccm-ps)

The **Enable BitLocker** step also now includes the setting to **Skip this step for computers that do not have a TPM or when TPM is not enabled**. By default, this setting is disabled. The step fails on a device without a TPM or a TPM that doesn't initialize. If you enable this setting, the task sequence engine logs a warning to smsts.log and sends a status message.

> [!TIP]
> This setting already exists on the Pre-provision BitLocker step.
