---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/28/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_vpn"></a> VPN boundary type

<!--7020519-->

To simplify managing remote clients, you can now create a new boundary type for VPNs.

Previously, you had to create boundaries for VPN clients based on the IP address or subnet. This configuration could be challenging or not possible because of the subnet configuration or the VPN design.

Now when a client sends a location request, it includes additional information about its network configuration. Based upon this information, the server determines whether the client is on a VPN. All clients that connect through a VPN automatically belong to the boundary group associated with this new boundary type.

For more information about boundaries, see [Define site boundaries and boundary groups](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/define-site-boundaries-and-boundary-groups.md).

### Prerequisites for VPN boundary

To take full advantage of this feature, after you update the site, also update clients to the latest version. New functionality appears in the Configuration Manager console when you update the site and console. The complete scenario isn't functional until the client version is also the latest.

To use this VPN boundary during an OS deployment, make sure to also update the boot image to include the latest client binaries.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Administration** workspace. Expand **Hierarchy Configuration**, and then select the **Boundaries** node.

1. In the ribbon, select **Create Boundary**.

1. Specify a **Description**, for example `VPN boundary`.

1. For the **Type**, select **VPN**. There are currently no additional configurations for this boundary type. Select **OK** to save and close.

1. Create a boundary group that includes this new VPN boundary. For more information, see [Create a boundary group](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/boundary-group-procedures.md#create-a-boundary-group).

### Known issues for VPN boundary

- You can only create one VPN boundary.
- The **Boundary** value in the console list is always `AUT:1`.
- The VPN detection logic may vary with different VPN solutions. If it doesn't work with your VPN, [file a frown](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback). Share details of your implementation to help improve the detection logic.
