---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/26/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_timeline"></a> Tenant attach: Device timeline in the admin center
<!--7141381-->
When Configuration Manager synchronizes a device to Microsoft Intune through tenant attach, you can now see a timeline of events. This timeline shows past activity on the device that can help you troubleshoot problems.

> [!Important]
> This is a preview experience. The final location will be the devices blade in Microsoft Intune admin center.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

#### Prerequisites

You'll need to meet all of the prerequisites for [Tenant attach: ConfigMgr client details](../../technical-preview-2004.md#bkmk_mem):

- An environment that's [tenant attached with uploaded devices](../../../../../tenant-attach/device-sync-actions.md).
- One of the following browsers:
  - Microsoft Edge, version 77 and later
  - Google Chrome
- The user account has been discovered with both [Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) user discovery](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/about-discovery-methods.md#azureaddisc) and [Active Directory user discovery](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/about-discovery-methods.md#bkmk_aboutUser).
  - Meaning the user account needs to be a synced user object in Azure.

Additionally, you'll need the following items:

- Enable Endpoint analytics data collection in Configuration Manager:
   1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to **Administration** > **Client Settings** > **Default Client Settings**.
   1. Right-click and select **Properties** then select the **Computer Agent** settings.
   1. Set **Enable Endpoint analytics data collection** to **Yes**.
      - Only events collected after the client receives this policy will be visible in the admin center preview. Events prior to receiving the policy won't be accessible.

#### Permissions

The user account needs the following permissions:

- The **Read** permission for the device's **Collection** in Configuration Manager.
- The **Read Resource** permission under **Collection** in Configuration Manager.
- The **Admin User** role for the Configuration Manager Microservice application in Azure AD.
  - Add the role in Azure AD from **Enterprise applications** > **Configuration Manager Microservice** > **Users and groups** > **Add user**. Groups are supported if you have Azure AD premium.


#### Generate events

Devices send events once a day to the admin center. Only events collected after the client receives the **Enable Endpoint analytics data collection** policy are visible in the admin center preview. Because of this, you may want to generate events to view in the timeline. Generate test events easily by installing an application or an update from Configuration Manager, or restart the device. Collecting Configuration Manager events requires a device restart. Events are retained for 30 days. Use the bellow chart to view events that are collected:

##### Collected events

|Event name|Provider name|Event ID|
|---|---|---|
|Application Error|Application Error|1000|
|Application Hang|Application Hang|1002|
|Kernel Crash|Microsoft-Windows-WER-SystemErrorReporting|1001|
|Application Crash|Windows Error Reporting|1001|
|Windows Update Agent – Update Installation|Microsoft-Windows-WindowsUpdateClient|19|
|Unknown Shutdown|Boot|0|
|Initiated Shutdown|Boot|1074|
|Abnormal Shutdown|Boot|41|
|Boundary Group Change|Microsoft-ConfigMgr|20000|
|Application Deployment|Microsoft-ConfigMgr|20001|
|Configuration Manager – Update Installation|Microsoft-ConfigMgr|20002|
|Firmware version change|Microsoft-ConfigMgr|20003|

#### View the timeline

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace and select the **Devices** node.
1. Right-click on a device that's been uploaded to Microsoft Intune.
1. In the right-click menu, select **Start** > **Admin Center Preview** to open the preview in your browser.
1. Click on **Timeline**. By default, you're shown events from the last 24 hours.
   - Use the **Filter** button to change the **Time range**, **Event levels**, and **Provider name**.
   - If you click on an event, you'll see the detailed message for it.
   - The device sends events once a day to the admin center. Select **Refresh** to reload the page and have the device send new uncollected events to the admin center preview. You'll need to select **Refresh** again after a few minutes to see the newly collected events.

:::image type="content" source="../../media/7141381-timeline.png" alt-text="Timeline of events for a device" lightbox="../../media/7141381-timeline.png":::
