---
author: Palikasingh
ms.author: palsi
manager: apoorvseth
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 11/28/2024
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---


## <a name="bkmk_CMGSecurity"></a>Enhanced Security for CMG


CMG Setup now uses Managed Identities and third party **Server App** to interact with CMG's Azure Storage Account, instead of storage account keys.
 - Hence storage account key access is disabled for new CMG Setup.

 - 	For sessions upgrading from earlier versions to 2409, the 'CMG enhanced security' button is shown as enabled.
   
   :::image type="content" alt-text="Screenshot of cm enhanced window in the console." source="../../media/27297018-Cmg-Enhanced.png" lightbox="../../media/27297018-Cmg-Enhanced.png":::
    
 - When the enhanced security option is selected, the VMSS OS Auto Upgrade feature will also be activated. An extra panel appears, prompting the admin to provide maintenance window details. Azure uses this information to schedule upgrades whenever new OS images become available.

   :::image type="content" alt-text="Screenshot of service window in the console." source="../../media/27297018-service-window.png" lightbox="../../media/27297018-service-window.png":::


### CMG Entra Application secret renewal

The 'Renew Secret Key' feature now opens a dialog with four options for the validity period. This update also prevents applications older than 800 days (approximately two years) from renewing their secret keys. The same options are available when creating a new app.

   :::image type="content" alt-text="Screenshot of service window in the console." source="../../media/27297018-secret-window.png" lightbox="../../media/27297018-secret-window.png":::

>[!NOTE]
>The admin must sign in using tenant global administrator credentials and then click on the Renew button.

