---
title: Summary of changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2107
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Article listing changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2107
ms.date: 07/28/2021
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: reference
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: apoorvseth
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.reviewer: mstewart,aaroncz 
ms.collection: tier3
---

# Summary of changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2107

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2107)*

## Summary of KB10096997

Release version 2107 of Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch contains various fixes and feature improvements. **Issues that are fixed** list below isn't inclusive of all changes. Instead, it highlights changes the product development team believes are most relevant to the broad Configuration Manager customer base. Many of these changes were made in response to customer feedback about product issues and improvements.

### Notes

- Version 2107 is available as an in-console update that can be installed at the top-tier site in a hierarchy.
- For installation information, see [Checklist for installing update 2107 for System Center Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/checklist-for-installing-update-2107.md).
- For more information about the changes that are included in version 2107, see [What's new in version 2107 of Configuration Manager current branch](../../core/plan-design/changes/whats-new-in-version-2107.md).

### Hotfixes that are included in this update

- [KB10036164](../../hotfix/2103/10036164.md): Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2103
- [KB10216365](../../hotfix/2103/10216365.md): Unable to move site database to SQL Always On availability group in Configuration Manager, version 2103
- [KB10372804](../../hotfix/2103/10372804.md): Using the MBAM Agent to escrow BitLocker recovery keys generates excessive policies in Configuration Manager, version 2103

## Issues that are fixed

### OS deployment

<!-- 2843466 -->
- If you have a remote management point (MP) that's in a different time zone than its primary site, when you deploy an OS to clients that are communicating with this MP, it creates a duplicate record in the database.

<!-- 9535375 -->
- Either the task sequence progress bar or the task sequence debugger is not visible immediately after **Setup Windows and ConfigMgr** task until a restart occurs.

<!-- 10389665 -->
- Importing a task sequence which includes references to driver packages does not import the driver package ID. Because of this issue, you needed to edit the task sequence and manually specify the Driver Package in the **Upgrade Operating System** task.

### Content management

<!-- 3308493 -->
- Content for applications deployed to client devices can incorrectly get removed from the client cache even when **Persist content in the client cache** option was set.

<!-- 4411374-->
- ContentLibraryCleanup.exe fails if any package is found missing on the distribution point, and reports an error resembling the following:

  ```text
  System.InvalidOperationException: This content library cannot be cleaned up right now because package <Package ID> is not fully installed.
    at Microsoft.ConfigurationManager.ContentLibraryCleanup.CLContentLibrary.LoadDistributedPackagesFromProvider()
    at Microsoft.ConfigurationManager.ContentLibraryCleanup.CLContentLibrary.LoadValidContentData()
  ```

<!-- 8740130 -->
- ContentLibraryCleanup.exe takes a long time and may fail after 5 minutes with an error resembling the following:

  ```text
  System.Management.ManagementException: Unable to load valid packages. Please check the specified site server location and ensure you have access to the site server and the provider. 
    ---> System.Management.ManagementException: Call cancelled 
    at System.Management.ManagementException.ThrowWithExtendedInfo(ManagementStatus errorCode)
    at System.Management.ManagementObjectCollection.ManagementObjectEnumerator.MoveNext() 
    at Microsoft.ConfigurationManager.ContentLibraryCleanup.CLContentLibrary.LoadPackageToContentFromProvider() 
    at Microsoft.ConfigurationManager.ContentLibraryCleanup.CLContentLibrary.LoadValidContentData() 
  ```

<!-- 9066956 -->
- Content download history data that powers the **Client sources dashboard** in the Configuration Manager console is discarded if the client is offline for more than 2 days.

<!-- 9726239 -->
- Reassigning a distribution point to another primary site may fail if the server previous had a site system role which was uninstalled. A message resembling the following is recorded in the `sitecomp.log`:

  ```text
  Server is already part of SMS site <SiteCode>.
  ```

<!-- 5912794 -->
- When you use a remote content library, content for a package or operating system image is not deleted from the content library after you delete the object.

### Configuration Manager Console

<!-- 9928902 -->
- After you select a device in the Devices node, the Collections tab does not populate any results if the user does not have access to the default security scope for operations.

<!-- 9952236 -->
- **Collection Evaluation Queue** shows incorrect count of collections in the **Incremental Evaluation Queue**.

### Client management

<!-- 7964181 -->
- Clients on internet using a PKI certificate do not switch to the next available internet-based Management Point or Cloud management gateway after a communication failure occurs.

<!-- 10278101 -->
- Clients are incorrectly considered to be in coexistence mode if Intune enrollment fails.

### Protection

<!-- 8423127 -->
- Script to set up BitLocker portals (`MBAMWebSiteInstaller.ps1`) fails if a custom report exists at the root of the report server. An error resembling the following is reported by the script:

  ```text
  Microsoft.ReportingServices.Diagnostics.Utilities.WrongItemTypeException: The operation you are attempting on item '<Custom Report Name>' is not allowed for this item type.
  ```

### Software Updates

<!-- 8656326 -->
- When a software update point (SUP) is reconfigured to require SSL, clients that were scanning for software updates using that SUP may switch to another SUP.

<!-- 9826023 -->
- **Run summarization** task for a software update deployment fails to run on the central administration site (CAS). An error resembling the following is reported in `statesys.log`:

  ```text
  *** exec spProcessSingleSummarizationRequests
  *** [42000][2812][Microsoft][SQL Server Native Client 11.0][SQL Server]Could not find stored procedure 'spTask_SUM_AssignmentComplianceEvaluator'. : spProcessSingleSummarizationRequests
  ```

<!-- 9377008 -->
- Software Update Point Synchronization status node in the console shows success even when a Microsoft 365 Apps Update failed to synchronize.

<!-- 4244824 -->
- An available software update deployment shows as **Required** in the Deployments tab under collection properties.

### Site infrastructure

<!-- 8716124 -->
- Simulated client operation tasks performed to monitor scenario health are visible in the **Client Operations** node in the Configuration Manager console. These tasks are executed every 30 minutes by default, and fill up the **Client Operations** node.

### Real-time management

<!-- 9486588 -->
- Registry entity in CMPivot does not return the value of the `(Default)` property.

## Dependency changes

The following dependent components that are included with Configuration Manager version 2107 are added or updated to the specified versions:

- Microsoft Edge WebView2 Redistributable to version 90.0.818.51
- Microsoft .NET Framework to version 4.6.2
- Microsoft Visual C++ 2015-2019 Redistributable to version 14.28.29914.0
- Xceed.wpf.avalondock.themes.metroaccent.dll to 4.1.0.0
- Xceed.wpf.themes.dll to 4.1.0.0
- Xceed.wpf.themes.metro.dll to 4.1.0.0
- Xceed.wpf.toolkit.themes.metro.dll to 4.1.0.0
- Microsoft.aspnet.odata.versioning.dll to 4.0.7242.29043
- Microsoft.aspnet.webapi.versioning.dll to 4.0.7242.29042
