---
title: Update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2107, early update ring
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Configuration Manager 2107 early update ring
ms.date: 08/30/2021
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: reference
author: vinaypamnani-msft
ms.author: vinpa
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2107, early update ring

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2107)*

## Summary of KB10503003

An update is available to administrators who opted in through a PowerShell script to the early update ring deployment for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2107. You can access the update in the **Updates and Servicing** node of the Configuration Manager console.

This update addresses important, late-breaking issues that were resolved after version 2107 became available globally. This article summarizes the most significant changes.

This update does not apply to sites that downloaded version 2107 on August 18, 2021, or a later date. Therefore, it will not be listed in the Configuration Manager console for those sites.

## Issues that are fixed

<!-- 10176285 -->
- When tenant-attach is enabled, not all devices are visible in the Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center immediately.

<!-- 10506770 -->
- Clients fail to run task sequence because they are unable to download policies for application referenced in the Task Sequence.

  - For task sequences deployed to existing clients, an error resembling the following is reported in `execmgr.log`:
  
    ```text
    Failed to load policy from XML ''
    Could not find the policy in WMI for Application <Application Unique ID>
    ```

  - For task sequences deployed to PXE, an error resembling the following is reported in `SMSTS.log`:

    ```text
    cannot get the 'Signature' node
    oPolicyAssignments.RequestAssignments(), HRESULT=80004005
    ```

<!-- 10518360 -->
- Management point installation or update fails if the site system has a version of Visual C++ redistributable newer than 14.28.29914.

<!-- 10517223 -->
- CMPivot favorite queries may show unexpected characters like `\r` or `\t`, or get truncated after the last comma (`,`).

<!-- 10608021 -->
- When you upgrade the client from versions 2010 or 2103 to version 2107, the following policies may not apply on some devices:

  - Co-management policies on Windows Enterprise multi-session devices such as Azure Virtual Desktop
  - Desktop Analytics on any Windows version
  - Windows Update for Business policies on Windows 10 x86 and ARM
  - Microsoft Edge browser profiles on Windows 10 x64 and x86

## Update information for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager, version 2107 early update ring

This update is available in the Updates and Servicing node of the Configuration Manager console for environments that were installed by using the publicly available early update ring builds of version 2107. These builds were available for download between August 2 and August 18, 2021.

To verify which build is installed, look for a package GUID by adding the Package GUID column to the details pane of the Updates and Servicing node in the console. This update applies to first wave installations of version 2107 from packages that have the following GUIDs:

- 86FE4AF1-68A1-4AD4-B435-91995D30ECD6
- 8D0F9A5B-B21D-438F-AC56-38428FECB787
- 142D394F-4E40-4574-AB8F-D182200DF03C
- 248DC1EB-4B98-4483-BAF3-08C678C1CD0A

### Restart information

This update does not require a computer restart but will initiate a [site reset](../../core/servers/manage/modify-your-infrastructure.md#bkmk_reset) after installation.

### Update replacement information

This update does not replace any previously released update.

### Additional installation information

After you install this update on a primary site, pre-existing secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. Configurations and settings for the secondary site are not affected by this reinstallation. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:

```sql
select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
```

- If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.
- If the value 0 is returned, the site has not installed all the fixes that are applied to the primary site, and you should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.

## Version information

The following major components are updated to the versions specified:

| Component                     | Version          |
|-------------------------------|------------------|
| Site                          | 5.00.9058.1000   |
| Configuration Manager console | 5.2107.1059.2300 |
| Client                        | 5.00.9058.1018   |

## File information

File information is available in the downloadable [KB10503003_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB10503003_FileList) text file.

## Release history

- August 30, 2021: Initial release

## References

[Summary of changes in 2107](../../hotfix/2107/10096997.md)

[Updates and servicing for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/updates.md)
