---
title: Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2107
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Update rollup for Configuration Manager 2107
ms.date: 10/27/2021
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 6fb1ecf7-f7fa-4221-a3af-a6165862e1cb
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: dougeby
---

# Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2107

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2107)*

## Summary of KB11121541

This article describes issues that are fixed in this update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2107. This update applies both to customers who opted in through a PowerShell script to the early update ring deployment, and customers who installed the globally available release. For more information on changes in Configuration Manager version 2107, see:

- [What’s new in version 2107 of Configuration Manager current branch](../../core/plan-design/changes/whats-new-in-version-2107.md)
- [Summary of changes in Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2107](../../hotfix/2107/10096997.md)

This update also adds support for devices running Windows 11 ARM64. For more information, see [Support for Windows 11 in Configuration Manager](../../core/plan-design/configs/support-for-windows-11.md#windows-11-on-arm64).

## Issues that are fixed

<!-- 11892479 -->
- After upgrading to version 2107, one or more applications in a task sequence fail with an error resembling the following in the `smsts.log`.

   ```text
   Install Static Applications failed, hr=0x87d00267
   ```

<!-- 11993093 -->
- Offline Servicing for Windows Server 2022 operating system image fails to detect updates as applicable.

<!-- 10555301 -->
- The **Installation Status** tab in Software Center hangs without loading completely. When this issue occurs, errors resembling the following are repeated in the `scclient.log`.

   ```text
   Getting all instances of CCM_Application
   Getting all instances of CCM_Program
   Getting all instances of CCM_SoftwareUpdate
   ```

<!-- 10692952 -->
- The **CMTrace** log file viewer does not display all characters at the beginning of a line.

<!-- 10732477 -->
- Syntax highlighting for PowerShell ignores the back quote escape character (\`\) when escaping double quotation marks.

<!-- 10732503 -->
- The site server may stop processing state messages, resulting in a backlog of files, due to a primary key constraint violation. Errors resembling the following are recorded in the `statesys.log` file.

   ```text
   SQL MESSAGE: spProcessStateReport - Error: Message processing encountered a SQL error 2627 at record 100 for TopicType 500, StateID 1: "Violation of PRIMARY KEY constraint 'SR_MissingMessageRanges_PK'. Cannot insert duplicate key in object 'dbo.SR_MissingMessageRanges'. The duplicate key value is (123456, 112233).", Line 0 in procedure ""
   ```

<!-- 10732515, 10745070 -->
- A console extension may fail to import with an error resembling the following recorded in the `AdminUI.ExtensionInstaller.log` file.

   ```text
   Return code indicates unhandled case. Result: Exception of type 'System.OutOfMemoryException' was thrown.
   ```

<!-- 10745061, 10745082 -->
- The Configuration Manager console generates an exception when selecting **View Collection** from the Collections tab in the Devices node. The exception contains information resembling the following.

   ```text
   The requested object information could not be retrieved. Refresh the Configuration Manager console to verify that another administrator has not moved or deleted the object, or that the role-based administration security scopes or security roles for the object or current user have not changed.
   ConfigMgr Error Object:
   instance of __ExtendedStatus
   {
   Operation = "GetObject";
   ParameterInfo = "SMS_DeviceCollectionMember.SiteID=\"{Site_ID}\"";
   ProviderName = "WinMgmt";
   };
   Error Code:
   NotFound
   ```

<!-- 10745095 -->
- The Configuration Manager client is blocked from sending endpoint analytics sensor events to the management point. This happens when there are backlogs in the CCM_SensorMessageQueue in WMI. Errors resembling the following are recorded in the `SensorEndpoint.log` file.

   ```text
   Invoke SensorWmiProvider succeeded.
   QueryTraceW returned=234 for SensorFramework-Live-Etw...
   Failed to get the next message to send. 0x80041032
   ```

<!-- 10748788 -->
- The Configuration Manager console terminates unexpectedly if a Reporting Services Point is installed while the SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) service is stopped. The `AdminUI.log` file contains errors resembling the following.

   ```text
   System.ArgumentException
   Version string portion was too short or too long.
   ```

<!-- 10789923 -->
- The **Configuration Manager Support Center Client Tools** application terminates unexpectedly on a Windows 11 computer selecting different deployments.

<!-- 10789925 -->
- The Cloud Management Gateway Azure Storage Account can now be configured to use TLS 1.2 through the Configuration Manager console. For more information, see [Enforce TLS 1.2](../../core/clients/manage/cmg/security-and-privacy-for-cloud-management-gateway.md#enforce-tls-12).

<!-- 10800388 -->
- Improvements to the Data Warehouse synchronization process are included to prevent the SQL Server TempDB from filling up.

<!-- 10800703 -->
- Endpoint analytics sensor data now includes the system SKU and processor name, and Microsoft Surface Model information, for Windows 11 hardware readiness.

<!-- 10944353 -->
- The cloud service configuration file (.csfg) is not updated after deploying a cloud management gateway. Errors resembling the following are recorded in the `CloudMgr.log` file.

   ```text
   ERROR: TaskManager: Task [UpdateServiceConfigurationTask: Service {ID}] has failed. Exception Hyak.Common.CloudException, ChangeDeploymentConfigurationOperationFailed: The Change Deployment Configuration operation failed for the domain '{ID}' in the deployment slot 'Production' with the name '{ID}-deployment': 'The specified configuration settings for Settings are invalid. Verify that the service configuration file is a valid XML file, and that role instance counts are specified as positive integers.'..~~
   ```

<!-- 10959492 -->
- Incremental collection updates don't work when the WQL statements contain custom properties.

<!-- 10973090 -->
- In some scenarios the maximum client policy size is incorrectly limited to 16MB instead of 32MB. This results in errors resembling the following in the `smsts.log` file.

   ```text
   Request was successful.
   dwBodyLength <= m_nMaxReplySize, HRESULT=80004005
   reply message body length is too long (18291682, 16777216)
   ```

<!-- 10997261 -->
- The BitLocker recovery key is only escrowed for the first user on a computer instead of all users that log on.

<!-- 11007543 -->
- Clients fail to download content from a peer cache source under the following conditions:

  - The content is deleted from a distribution point but remains in the peer cache.
  - The client is on a low bandwidth connection that causes the BITS download job to take over 24 hours to complete.

<!-- 11041519 -->
- The device collection is unexpectedly empty when selected from the device graph on the Windows 10 dashboard.

<!-- 11184150 -->
- The list of BitLocker recovery keys is blank for Azure Active Directory-joined devices.

## Hotfixes that are included in this update

- KB [10503003](../../hotfix/2107/10503003.md) Update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2107, early update ring

## Known issues in this release

- The **Log Analytics connector for Azure Monitor** feature was removed from Configuration Manager version 2107. However, the pages that allow an administrator to view and delete the **OMS Connector** are still present but don't function. For more information, see [Deprecated features](../../core/plan-design/changes/deprecated/removed-and-deprecated-cmfeatures.md#unsupported-and-removed-features).

## Update information for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2107

This update is available in the Updates and Servicing node of the Configuration Manager console for environments that were installed by using early update ring or globally available builds of version 2107.

Members of the Configuration Manager Technology Adoption Program (TAP) must first apply the private TAP rollup before this update is displayed.

To verify which build is in use, look for a Package GUID by adding the Package GUID column to the details pane of the Updates and Servicing node in the console. The update applies to installations from packages that have the following GUIDs:

- **248DC1EB-4B98-4483-BAF3-08C678C1CD0A**
- **142D394F-4E40-4574-AB8F-D182200DF03C**
- **8D0F9A5B-B21D-438F-AC56-38428FECB787**
- **86FE4AF1-68A1-4AD4-B435-91995D30ECD6**
- **E392EF90-DB2C-47BB-ACB8-11E702D0F451**
- **42E1CF6E-95A1-4A8D-96AD-311E6247B3FB**

The update is also applicable to TAP builds with the private TAP rollup installed.

### Restart information

This update does not require a computer restart but will initiate a [site reset](../../core/servers/manage/modify-your-infrastructure.md#bkmk_reset) after installation.

### Additional installation information

After you install this update on a primary site, pre-existing secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. Configurations and settings for the secondary site are not affected by this reinstallation. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:

   ```code
   select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
   ```

- If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.
- If the value 0 is returned, the site has not installed all the fixes that are applied to the primary site, and you should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.

## Version information

The following major components are updated to the versions specified:

| Component                     | Version          |
|-------------------------------|------------------|
| Configuration Manager console | 5.2107.1059.3700 |
| Client                        | 5.0.9058.1047    |

## File information

File information is available in the downloadable [KB11121541_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB11121541_FileList) text file.

## Release history

- October 27, 2021: Initial hotfix release

## References

[Updates and servicing for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/updates.md)
