---
title: Client update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2107
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Client update for 2107
ms.date: 12/02/2021
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: a8e89ce4-e3f6-476e-baad-d11cb1bb70f6
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: apoorvseth
ms.reviewer: mstewart,aaroncz 
ms.collection: tier3
---

# Update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2107

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2107)*
## Summary of KB12636660

An update is available to resolve the following issue with Configuration Manager after installing the [Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2107](./11121541.md).

- Clients in untrusted domains do not use the network access account as a fallback authentication method to access content on distribution points. This leads to content download failures when other authentication methods are unavailable.

## Update information for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager, version 2107
The following hotfix to resolve this problem is available for download from the Microsoft Download Center:

[Download this hotfix now](https://configmgrbits.azureedge.net/qfe/2107/KB12636660_9058.1048/CM2107-KB12636660.ConfigMgr.Update.exe).

After you download the hotfix, see the following documentation for installation instructions:

[Use the Update Registration Tool to import hotfixes to Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/use-the-update-registration-tool-to-import-hotfixes.md)

#### Prerequisites
To apply this hotfix, you must have Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager, version 2107 installed in addition to the following update:

[KB11121541](./11121541.md) Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2107

#### Restart information
This update does not require a computer restart or initiate a site reset.

### Other installation information
After you install this update on a primary site, pre-existing secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. Configurations and settings for the secondary site are not affected by this reinstallation. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:
   ```code
   select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
   ```
If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.

If the value 0 is returned, the site has not installed all the fixes that are applied to the primary site, and you should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.

## Version information
The following major components are updated to the versions specified:

|Component |Version |
|---|---|
| Configuration Manager client | 5.00.9058.1048 |

## File information
File information is available in the downloadable [KB12636660_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB12636660_FileList) text file.

## Release history
- December 2, 2021: Initial hotfix release

## References
[Updates and servicing for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/updates.md)
[Network access account](../../core/plan-design/hierarchy/fundamental-concepts-for-content-management.md#network-access-account)



