---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 08/02/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_tsperf"></a> Task sequence performance improvements for power plans

<!--3555926-->

Based on your feedback, you can now run a task sequence with the high performance power plan. This option improves the overall speed of the task sequence. It configures Windows to use its built-in high performance power plan, which delivers maximum performance at the expense of higher power consumption.

When the task sequence starts, it records the currently enabled power plan. It then switches the active power plan to the Windows default **High Performance** plan. If the task sequence restarts the computer, it repeats this process. At the end of the task sequence, it resets the power plan to the stored value. This functionality works in both Windows and Windows PE, but has no impact on virtual machines.

> [!Important]
> To take advantage of this new Configuration Manager feature, after you update the site, update clients to the latest version. Also update boot images to include the latest client components. While new functionality appears in the Configuration Manager console when you update the site and console, the complete scenario isn't functional until the client version is also the latest.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Software Library** workspace. Expand **Operating Systems**, and select the **Task Sequences** node.
1. Create or choose an existing task sequence, and then select **Properties**.
1. Switch to the **Performance** tab.
1. Enable the option to **Run as high performance power plan**.

> [!Warning]
> Be cautious with this setting on low performance hardware. Running intense system operations for an extended period of time can strain low-end hardware. Check with your hardware manufacturer for specific guidance.
