---
author: mestew
ms.author: mstewart
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 07/27/2020
---
## <a name="bkmk_atp"></a> Tenant attach: Microsoft Defender Antivirus policies in the Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center
<!--4812909-->
You can now create Microsoft Defender antivirus policies in the Microsoft Endpoint Manager console and deploy them to Configuration Manager collections. For more information including detailed instructions and available settings, see the following articles:
- [Set up Configuration Manager to support the EDR policy](../../../../../../intune/protect/tenant-attach-intune.md)
- [Settings for Microsoft Defender Antivirus policy for tenant attached devices in Microsoft Intune](../../../../../../intune/protect/antivirus-microsoft-defender-settings-windows-tenant-attach.md)


### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback) with your thoughts on the feature. 

#### Prerequisites

- An environment that's [tenant attached with uploaded devices](../../../../../tenant-attach/device-sync-actions.md).
- At least one Configuration Manager collection available for assigning Microsoft Defender ATP policies
   1. From a Configuration Manger console connected to your top-level site, right-click on a device collection and select **Properties**.
   1. On the **Cloud Sync** tab, enable the option to **Make this collection available to assign Endpoint security policies from Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center**. <!--7594224-->
      - The option is disabled if your hierarchy isn't tenant attached.

#### Assign antivirus policies to a collection

1. In a browser, go to [https://aka.ms/MDAVTenantAttachPreview](https://aka.ms/MDAVTenantAttachPreview).
1. Select **Endpoint security** then **Antivirus**.
1. Select **Create Policy**.
1. For the **Platform**, select **Windows 10 and Windows Server (ConfigMgr)**.
1. For the **Profile**, select **Microsoft Defender Antivirus (Preview)** then **Create**.
1. Assign a **Name** and optionally a **Description** on the **Basics** page.
1. On the **Configuration settings** page, configure the settings you want to manage with this profile. When your done configuring settings, select **Next**. For more information about available policies, see [Settings for Microsoft Defender Antivirus policy for tenant attached devices in Microsoft Intune](../../../../../../intune/protect/antivirus-microsoft-defender-settings-windows-tenant-attach.md).
1. Assign the policy to a Configuration Manager collection on the **Assignments** page.

