---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 10/16/2018
---

## <a name="bkmk_autopilot"></a> Task sequence support of Windows Autopilot for existing devices
<!--1358333-->

[Windows Autopilot for existing devices](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/Windows-IT-Pro-Blog/New-Windows-Autopilot-capabilities-and-expanded-partner-support/ba-p/260430), is now available with Windows 10 Insider Preview. This new feature allows you to reimage and provision a Windows 7 device for [Windows Autopilot user-driven mode](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/deployment/windows-autopilot/user-driven) using a single Configuration Manager task sequence. For more information on this process, as well as the manual steps to use with Configuration Manager version 1806, see the blog post [Upgrade Windows 7 using Windows Autopilot in Configuration Manager](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/Windows-IT-Pro-Blog/Upgrade-Windows-7-using-Windows-Autopilot-in-Configuration/ba-p/267747). 

This Configuration Manager technical preview version adds native support for creating a task sequence for Windows Autopilot for existing devices. 


### Prerequisites

- [Windows 10 Insider Preview version 17758 or later](#bkmk_autopilot-image)  
- [A Windows Autopilot for existing devices configuration file](#bkmk_autopilot-json)  

#### <a name="bkmk_autopilot-image"></a> Windows 10 Insider Preview OS image
Acquire the installation media for Windows 10 Insider Preview version 17758 or later. For more information, see [Windows Insider Preview Downloads](https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windowsinsiderpreviewadvanced).  

Then create a Configuration Manager OS image. For more information, see [Manage OS images](/sccm/osd/get-started/manage-operating-system-images).

#### <a name="bkmk_autopilot-json"></a> Create the Windows Autopilot for existing devices configuration file
1. Run the following Windows PowerShell commands:  

    ``` PowerShell  
    Install-Module AzureAD
    Install-Module WindowsAutopilotIntune 
    Import-Module WindowsAutopilotIntune 
    Connect-AutopilotIntune 
    Get-AutopilotProfile | ConvertTo-AutopilotConfigurationJSON 
    ```  

2. Save one of the profiles to an ANSI-encoded file named **AutopilotConfigurationFile.json**. Save it to a location suitable as a Configuration Manager package source.  

    > [!Tip]  
    > If you use the PowerShell cmdlet `Out-File` to redirect the JSON output to a file, it uses Unicode encoding by default. Use the `-Encoding ASCII` parameter to set the proper text encoding. For more information, see [Out-File](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.utility/out-file?view=powershell-6#optional-parameters).  
    > 
    > Windows Notepad uses ANSI encoding by default.  

3. Create a Configuration Manager package that contains this file. It doesn't require a program. For more information, see [Create a package](/sccm/apps/deploy-use/packages-and-programs#create-a-package-and-program).  

    > [!NOTE]  
    > Windows requires that this file is named AutopilotConfigurationFile.json. To use more than one Autopilot profile, create separate Configuration Manager packages.  

For more information on this process, see the blog post [Upgrade Windows 7 using Windows Autopilot in Configuration Manager](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/Windows-IT-Pro-Blog/Upgrade-Windows-7-using-Windows-Autopilot-in-Configuration/ba-p/267747).


### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](/sccm/core/understand/find-help#product-feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Software Library** workspace, expand **Operating Systems**, and select the **Task Sequences** node. Select **Create Task Sequence** in the ribbon.  

2. On the **Create new task sequence** page, select the new option to **Deploy Windows Autopilot for existing devices**.  

3. On the **Task sequence information** page, specify a name, optionally add a description, and select a boot image. For more information on supported boot image versions, see [Support for Windows 10](/sccm/core/plan-design/configs/support-for-windows-10#windows-10-adk).  

4. On the **Install Windows** page, select the Windows 10 Insider Preview OS image package.  

5. On the **Install Configuration manager** page, add any necessary installation properties for your environment.  

6. The **Include updates** page selects by default the option to **Do not install any software updates**.  

    > [!Tip]  
    > Use offline image servicing to keep the image up to date with the latest Windows 10 quality updates. For more information, see [Apply software updates to an OS image](/sccm/osd/get-started/manage-operating-system-images#BKMK_OSImagesApplyUpdates).  

7. You can select applications to install as part of the task sequence on the **Install applications** page. However, Microsoft recommends that you mirror the signature image approach with this scenario. After the device provisions with Autopilot, apply all applications and configurations from Microsoft Intune or Configuration Manager co-management. This process provides a consistent experience between users receiving new devices and those using Windows Autopilot for existing devices.  

8. On the new **Deploy Windows Autopilot for existing devices** page, select the package that includes the Autopilot configuration file. By default, the task sequence restarts the computer after it runs Windows Sysprep. You can also select the option to **Shutdown computer after this task sequence completes**. This option lets you prepare a device and then deliver it to a user for a consistent Autopilot experience.  

9. Complete the wizard.  

If you edit the task sequence, it's similar to the default task sequence to apply an existing OS image. This task sequence includes the following additional steps:  

- **Apply Windows Autopilot configuration**: this step applies the Autopilot configuration file from the specified package.  

- **Prepare Windows for Capture**: this step runs Windows Sysprep and includes the new option to **Shutdown the computer after running this action**.  


