---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-other
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 12/11/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_rules"></a> New management insight rules from Microsoft Services

<!--3607758-->

This release includes additional [management insight](/configmgr/core/servers/manage/management-insights) rules courtesy of Microsoft Premier Field Engineering. These rules are a sample of the many more checks that Microsoft Premier provides in the [Services Hub](https://docs.microsoft.com/services-hub/health/getting_started_with_on_demand_assessments).

- **Reduce the number of applications and packages on distribution points**: Microsoft officially supports a combined total of up to 10,000 packages and applications on a distribution point. Exceeding this total can lead to operational problems. For more information, see [Size and scale numbers - distribution point](/configmgr/core/plan-design/configs/size-and-scale-numbers#distribution-point).

- **Update all sites to the same version**: Use the same version of Configuration Manager in a hierarchy. This configuration makes sure all sites provide the same functionality. Sites of different versions in the same hierarchy introduce interoperability scenarios. Later versions of Configuration Manager include new features and resolve known issues. For more information, see [Interoperability between different versions](/configmgr/core/plan-design/hierarchy/interoperability-between-different-versions).

- **Heartbeat Discovery is disabled**: Heartbeat discovery requires that you install the Configuration Manager client on devices. It's the only discovery method that clients start. All other methods occur on site servers. Heartbeat discovery is essential to keep client activity status current. It makes sure that the site doesn't accidentally age out the resource records from the site database. For more information, see [Heartbeat discovery](/configmgr/core/servers/deploy/configure/about-discovery-methods#bkmk_aboutHeartbeat).

- **Long running collection queries enabled for incremental updates**: Collections with a last incremental refresh time higher than 30 seconds use site server and database resources, which could potentially impact overall Configuration Manager performance. For more information, see [Best practices for collections](/configmgr/core/clients/manage/collections/best-practices-for-collections).

- **Secondary site installation issues**: The installation status of some secondary sites is **Pending** or **Failed**. These states mean that you started the install but it didn't complete successfully. Until the secondary site install finishes, clients may not communicate properly with the primary site. Check the **Monitoring** workspace, and retry the installation. For more information, see [Retry installation of a failed update](/configmgr/core/servers/manage/install-in-console-updates#bkmk_retry).

- **Active Directory System Discovery is configured to run too frequently**: You typically don't need to configure Active Directory System Discovery to occur more frequently than every three hours. A more frequent configuration can have a negative performance impact on Active Directory, the network, and Configuration Manager. Enable incremental synchronization instead of using a full sync schedule. For more information, see [Active Directory system discovery](/configmgr/core/servers/deploy/configure/about-discovery-methods#bkmk_aboutSystem).

- **Active Directory Security Group Discovery is configured to run too frequently**: You typically don't need to configure Active Directory Security Group Discovery to occur more frequently than every three hours. A more frequent configuration can have a negative performance impact on Active Directory, the network, and Configuration Manager. Enable incremental synchronization instead of using a full sync schedule. For more information, see [Active Directory group discovery](/configmgr/core/servers/deploy/configure/about-discovery-methods#bkmk_aboutGroup).

- **Active Directory User Discovery is configured to run too frequently**: You typically don't need to configure Active Directory User Discovery to occur more frequently than every three hours. A more frequent configuration can have a negative performance impact on Active Directory, the network, and Configuration Manager. Enable incremental synchronization instead of using a full sync schedule. For more information, see [Active Directory user discovery](/configmgr/core/servers/deploy/configure/about-discovery-methods#bkmk_aboutUser).

- **Collections limited to All Systems or All Users**: Review any collections that use the **All Systems** or **All Users** collections as the limiting collection. Configuration Manager updates the membership of these default collections with data from the Active Directory discovery methods. This data may not be valid information for Configuration Manager clients.

For more information on these rules, see [Remediation steps for Configuration Manager management insights](https://docs.microsoft.com/services-hub/health/remediation-steps-configmgr).

If you're already a customer of Microsoft Unified or Microsoft Premier, sign in to the [Services Hub](https://serviceshub.microsoft.com/assessments/) for additional on-demand assessments. For more information about Microsoft Services, see [Support Solutions](https://www.microsoft.com/enterprise/services/support).
