---
author: mestew
ms.author: mstewart
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 11/23/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_hub"></a> Categorize Community hub content

<!--8052494-->
Community hub content is grouped into a Microsoft, curated, or unreviewed category to allow admins to choose the types of content their environment displays. Admins can choose from the different categories of content that are provided in the [Community hub](../../../../servers/manage/community-hub.md) to match their risk profile and their willingness to share and use content from those outside Microsoft and outside their own company.

Community hub content has three categories for content sources:
- **Microsoft curated**: Content provided by Microsoft
- **Community curated**: Content provided by the community that gets reviewed by Microsoft
- **Community unreviewed**: General content from the community that doesn't get reviewed by Microsoft


:::image type="content" source="../../../media/8052494-community-hub-content-sources.png" alt-text="The three categories for content sources for Community hub":::


Admins can choose the types of content their environment displays from the following options:

- **Display Microsoft content**: Selecting this option means that only content created by Microsoft will be shown in the Community hub. This content has had some basic testing and scanning validation to confirm no malware and inappropriate text.
- **Display Microsoft and curated community content**: Show curated content from both Microsoft and community partners with basic level of review. Selecting this option means that only content that has been curated will be shown. The curation process includes basic review to confirm that the content doesn’t have malware and inappropriate text, but hasn’t necessarily been tested. It will include content from the community, not just from Microsoft.
- **Display all content including unreviewed content**:  Selecting this option means that all content is shown. This option includes unreviewed open-source type samples from the community, meaning that the content hasn’t necessarily been reviewed at all. It's provided as-is as open-source type sample content. Doing your own inspection and testing before using is highly encouraged, which is good practice on any content, but especially this class of content.

:::image type="content" source="../../../media/8052494-community-hub-content-hierarchy-settings.png" alt-text="Hierarchy settings for allowed content sources for Community hub":::

Since the content is *open-source* style content, admins should always review what is provided before consuming it. The new curation process is intended to vet the material to make sure there aren't obvious quality or compliance issues, but it will be somewhat of a cursory review. All content stored within GitHub and accessed from the Community hub isn’t supported by Microsoft. Microsoft doesn’t validate content collected from or shared by the general community. For more information, see [GitHub Terms of Service](https://help.github.com/terms) and [GitHub Privacy Statement](https://help.github.com/privacy).

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../technical-preview-2003.md#bkmk_feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

#### Permissions

Full Administrators can opt in the hierarchy for uncurated content via hierarchy settings.
Lower hierarchy admins (not Full Administrators) can't opt in the hierarchy for uncurated HubItems.

Most [built-in security roles](../../../../understand/fundamentals-of-role-based-administration.md) will have access to Community hub: 

|Role name|View the hub| Contribute hub content|Download hub content|
|---|---|---|---|
|Remote Tools Operator|No|N/A|N/A|
|Read Only Analyst|Yes|No|No|
|All other roles|Yes|Yes|Yes|

#### Select the content categories to display in Community hub for the environment

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to **Administration** > **Overview** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites**.
1. Select the top-level site in your hierarchy and select **Hierarchy Settings** from the ribbon.
1. On the **General** tab, change the **Community hub** setting to **Display Microsoft content**.
1. Select **Ok** when you're finished changing the hierarchy setting.
1. Open the **Community hub** node in the **Community** workspace.
1. Ensure that only Microsoft content is displayed and available for download.
1. Go back to **Hierarchy Settings** and select another option such as **Display all content, including unreviewed content**.
1. Confirm that only the type of content is displayed and able to be downloaded from the Community hub, that matches the corresponding hierarchy setting category.

## <a name="bkmk_hub_os"></a> Community hub on Windows Server operating systems
<!--8625943, 8717639 -->
You can now display the Community hub on Windows Server operating systems. Follow the instructions below to enable Windows Server 2012 and later to load the Community hub:  

1. Install the latest version of the Configuration Manager console.
1. Download the **x86 Fixed Version WebView2 runtime** CAB file from [https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/.)
   :::image type="content" source="../../../media/8625943-download-fixed-version.png" alt-text="Download of the fixed version for the WebView2 Runtime":::
1. Extract the contents of the cab file to a folder you created. 
1. Copy the files from `<the extracted cab folder>\Microsoft.WebView2.FixedVersionRuntime.87.0.664.41.x86\Microsoft.WebView2.FixedVersionRuntime.87.0.664.41.x86` to the `%ConsoleInstallationDirectory%\bin\EdgeRedist` folder on the machine running the console.
1. Open the Configuration Manager console and verify that the **Community hub** node opens properly on the machine. If the files aren't copied into the directory properly, it will likely crash the console.
   :::image type="content" source="../../../media/8625943-copy-fixed-version.png" alt-text="File list of the bin\EdgeRedist folder":::
