---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 11/23/2020
---

## <a name="bkmk_osd"></a> Improvements to OS deployment

This release includes the following improvements to OS deployment:

- Based on your feedback, task sequence conditions now include a **not like** operator. This operator applies to task sequence variable conditions. It's also used in the [Set Dynamic Variable](../../../../../osd/understand/task-sequence-steps.md#BKMK_SetDynamicVariables) task sequence step.<!--8764365-->

- Based on your feedback, this release fixes issues with the [SMSTSDisableStatusRetry](../../../../../osd/understand/task-sequence-variables.md#SMSTSDisableStatusRetry) task sequence variable.<!-- 8727206 -->

- Based on your feedback, the [Check Readiness](../../../../../osd/understand/task-sequence-steps.md#BKMK_CheckReadiness) task sequence step now also checks free space on disks without partitions.<!-- 8751864  -->

- Based on your feedback, the following PowerShell cmdlets now have an **Index** parameter:<!-- 8559060 -->

  - [New-CMOperatingSystemImage](/powershell/module/configurationmanager/new-cmoperatingsystemimage): When you run this cmdlet with the new **Index** parameter, it creates a new single-index image file in the same source folder.
  - [New-CMOperatingSystemInstaller](/powershell/module/configurationmanager/new-cmoperatingsysteminstaller) (alias **New-CMOperatingSystemUpgradePackage**): When you run this cmdlet with the new **Index** parameter, it replaces the original image file in the source folder with a single-index image file.

- Based on your feedback, the following new cmdlets are available to get the list of existing hardware IDs in the site database:<!-- 8702570 -->

  - **Get-CMDuplicateHardwareIdGuid**
  - **Get-CMDuplicateHardwareIdMacAddress**

  These new cmdlets supplement the existing cmdlets to add and remove duplicate IDs. For more information, see [Version 1910 PowerShell release notes](/powershell/sccm/1910-release-notes#new-cmdlets).
