---
author: mestew
ms.author: mstewart
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 04/26/2019
ms.collection: M365-identity-device-management
---

## Improved control over WSUS Maintenance
<!--41101009-->

You now have more granular control over the WSUS maintenance tasks that Configuration Manager runs to maintain healthy software update points. In addition to declining expired updates in WSUS, Configuration Manager can now add non-clustered indexes to the WSUS database. 

The indexes improve the WSUS cleanup performance that Configuration Manager initiates. On each SUSDB used by Configuration Manager, indexes are added to the following tables:

- tbLocalizedPropertyForRevision
- tbRevisionSupersedesUpdate

> [!NOTE]  
>  If the WSUS database is on a remote SQL server using a non-default port, then indexes might not be added. You can create a [server alias using SQL Server Configuration Manager](https://docs.microsoft.com/sql/database-engine/configure-windows/create-or-delete-a-server-alias-for-use-by-a-client?view=sql-server-2017) for this scenario. Once the alias is added and Configuration Manager can make a connection to the WSUS database, indexes will be added. 

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](/sccm/core/understand/find-help#product-feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, navigate to **Administration** > **Overview** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites**.

2. Select the site at the top of your Configuration Manager hierarchy.

3. Click **Configure Site Components** in the Settings group, and then click **Software Update Point** to open Software Update Point Component Properties.

4. In the **WSUS Maintenance** tab, select **Add non-clustered indexes to the WSUS database**.
