---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 04/26/2019
ms.collection: M365-identity-device-management
---

## <a name="bkmk_precache"></a> Pre-cache driver packages and OS images

<!--4224642-->
Task sequence pre-cache now includes additional content types. [Pre-cache content](/sccm/osd/deploy-use/create-a-task-sequence-to-upgrade-an-operating-system#configure-pre-cache-content) previously only applied to OS upgrade packages. Now you can use pre-caching to reduce bandwidth consumption of OS images and driver packages.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](/sccm/core/understand/find-help#product-feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. Create OS images for specific architectures and languages. Specify the **Architecture** and **Language** on the **Data Source** tab of the package. For the language, use the decimal conversion. For example, **1033** is the decimal value for English, and **0x0409** is the hexadecimal equivalent.  

    The client evaluates the architecture and language values to determine which OS image it downloads during pre-caching.  

2. Create driver packages for specific hardware models. Specify the **Model** on the **General** tab of the package.  

3. Create a task sequence with the following steps:  

    - Conditional steps for the different languages and architectures of more than one OS image  

    - Conditional steps for the different models of more than one driver package  

4. Deploy the task sequence. For the pre-cache feature, configure the following settings:  

    - On the **General** tab, select **Pre-download content for this task sequence**.  

    - On the **Deployment settings** tab, configure the task sequence as **Available**.  

    - On the **Scheduling** tab, choose the currently selected time for the setting, **Schedule when this deployment will be available**. The client starts pre-caching content at the deployment's available time. When a targeted client receives this policy, the available time is in the past, thus pre-cache download starts right away. If the client receives this policy but the available time is in the future, the client doesn't start pre-caching content until the available time occurs.  

    - On the **Distribution Points** tab, configure the **Deployment options** settings. If the content isn't pre-cached before a user starts the installation, the client uses these settings.  

For more information on pre-caching behavior and functionality, see [Configure pre-cache content](/sccm/osd/deploy-use/create-a-task-sequence-to-upgrade-an-operating-system#configure-pre-cache-content).
