---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/21/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_tsdt"></a> Task sequence as an app model deployment type

<!--3555953-->

You can now install complex applications using task sequences via the application model. Add a deployment type to an app that's a task sequence, either to install or uninstall the app. This feature provides the following behaviors:

- Deploy an app task sequence to a user collection

- Display the app task sequence with an icon in Software Center. An icon makes it easier for users to find and identify the app task sequence.

- Define additional metadata for the app task sequence, including localized information

You can only add a non-OS deployment task sequence as a deployment type on an app. High-impact, OS deployment, or OS upgrade task sequences aren't supported. A user-targeted deployment still runs in the user context of the local System account.

### Prerequisites

Create a custom task sequence:

- Use only non-OS deployment steps, for example: Install Application, Run Command Line, or Run PowerShell Script. For more information including the full list of supported steps, see [Create a task sequence for non-OS deployments](../../../../../osd/deploy-use/create-a-task-sequence-for-non-operating-system-deployments.md).

- On the task sequence properties, **User Notification** tab, don't select the option for a high-impact task sequence.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, [create an application](../../../../../apps/deploy-use/create-applications.md#bkmk_create). Use the option to **Manually specify the application information**.  

    > [!Tip]  
    > You can also add this deployment type to an existing app.  

1. When you add a deployment type, select **Task Sequence** from the list of Types.

1. On the Task Sequence page of the Create Deployment Type wizard, select an **Install task sequence**. Optionally, select an **Uninstall task sequence**.  

    > [!Note]  
    > If your task sequence doesn't appear in the list, double-check that it doesn't include any OS deployment or OS upgrade steps. Also confirm that it isn't marked as a high-impact task sequence. For more information, see the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites).  

1. Further configure the app and deployment type as necessary. For example, customize the icon on the Software Center tab of the app.

1. [Deploy the app](../../../../../apps/deploy-use/deploy-applications.md#bkmk_deploy) as usual.


### Known issue

The client-side functionality isn't yet completed, so you won't see the deployment in Software Center.
