---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/21/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_app-group"></a> Application groups

<!--3555907-->

Create a group of applications that you can send to a user or device collection as a single deployment. The metadata you specify about the app group is seen in Software Center as a single entity. You can order the apps in the group so that the client installs them in a specific order.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Software Library** workspace. Expand **Application Management** and select the **Application Group** node.  

1. On the **General Information** page, specify information about the app group.  

1. On the **Software Center** page, include information that shows in Software Center.  

1. On the **Application Group** page, select **Add**. Select one or more apps for this group. Reorder them using the **Move Up** and **Move Down** actions.  

1. Complete the wizard.  

Deploy the app group using the same process as for an application. For more information, see [Deploy applications](../../../../../apps/deploy-use/deploy-applications.md).

To troubleshoot an app group deployment, use the **AppGroupHandler.log** and **AppEnforce.log** files on the client.

### Known issues

- Deploy the app group as required, without user interaction, and to a device collection.
- The app group isn't currently shown in Software Center.
- The deployment of an app group doesn't show in the **Deployments** node of the **Monitoring** workspace.
