---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/21/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_wdag"></a> Windows Defender Application Guard file trust criteria

<!--3555858-->
There's a new policy setting that enables users to trust files that normally open in Windows Defender Application Guard (WDAG). Upon successful completion, the files will open on the host device instead of in WDAG. For more information about the WDAG policies, see [Configure Windows Defender Application Guard policy settings](/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-application-guard/configure-wd-app-guard).

### Prerequisites

- Clients running Windows 10 version 1809 or later

### Permissions

- **Author Policy**, **Read**, **Run Report**, and **Modify Report** under **Settings for Windows Defender Application Guard**

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

#### Create a new WDAG policy

1. In the **Assets and Compliance** workspace, expand **Endpoint Protection**, then select the **Windows Defender Application Guard** node.
1. Select **Create Windows Defender Application Guard policy** in the ribbon.
1. In wizard, provide the **Name** for policy, and any other WDAG policies you need.
1. Under the **File Management** page, choose your option for **Allow users to trust files that open in Windows Defender Application Guard**.
     - **Prohibited:** Don't allow users to mark files as trusted (default).
     - **File checked by antivirus:** Allow users to mark files as trusted after an antivirus check.
     - **All files:** Allow users to mark any file as trusted.
1. Complete the wizard for additional policies, then select **Close** to exit the wizard once you're done.
1. Deploy the policy by selecting **Deploy** in the ribbon.

#### Edit an existing WDAG policy

1. In the **Assets and Compliance** workspace, expand **Endpoint Protection**, then select the **Windows Defender Application Guard** node.
1. Right-click on the policy you want to edit, then select **Properties**.
1. Switch to the **File Management** tab and choose your option for **Allow users to trust files that open in Windows Defender Application Guard**.
     - **Prohibited:** Don't allow users to mark files as trusted (default).
     - **File checked by antivirus:** Allow users to mark files as trusted after an antivirus check.
     - **All files:** Allow users to mark any file as trusted.
1. Select **OK** to save your selection and close the policy properties.
1. Deploy the policy by selecting **Deploy** in the ribbon.


### Known issues

- In the client's DCMReporting.log, you may see errors logged which typically don't effect functionality:

  - On compatible devices:
    - FileTrustCriteria_condition not found
  - On non-compatible devices:
    - FileTrustCriteria_condition not found
    - FileTrustCriteria_could not be located in the map
    - FileTrustCriteria_condition not found in digest