---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/21/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_bitlocker"></a> BitLocker management

<!--3601034-->

You can now use Configuration Manager to install and manage the Microsoft BitLocker Administration and Monitoring (MBAM) client.

For more information, see [Microsoft expands BitLocker management capabilities for the enterprise](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/Enterprise-Mobility-Security/Microsoft-expands-BitLocker-management-capabilities-for-the/ba-p/544329).

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace, expand **Endpoint Protection**, and select the **BitLocker Management (MBAM)** node.

1. In the ribbon, select the action to create a policy.  

1. On the **General** page, specify a name and optional description. Select the components to enable on clients with this policy:  

    - **Client Management**: Manage the key recovery service backup of BitLocker Drive Encryption recovery information  

    - **Operating System Drive**: Manage whether the OS drive is encrypted

1. On the **Client Management** page, specify the following settings:

    - **Configure MBAM Services**: If you enable this setting, key recovery info is automatically and silently backed up to the Configuration Manager site.  

    - **Select BitLocker recovery information to store**: Configure it to use a recovery password and key package, or just a recovery password.

    - **Enter client checking status frequency in (minutes)**: This value is the interval at which the MBAM client checks with the site for updated policy.

1. On the **Operating System Drive** page, specify the following settings:  

    - **Operating System Drive Encryption Settings**: If you enable this setting, the user has to protect the OS drive, and BitLocker encrypts the drive. If you disable it, the user can't protect the drive.  

        > [!Note]  
        > If the drive is already encrypted, and you disable this setting, BitLocker decrypts the drive.  

    - **Allow BitLocker without a compatible TPM (requires a password)**

    - **Select protector for operating system drive**: Configure it to use a TPM and PIN, or just the TPM.

    - **Configure minimum PIN length for startup**: If you require a PIN, this value is the shortest length the user can specify. The user enters this PIN when the computer boots to unlock the drive.

1. Complete the wizard.

1. Deploy the policy to a device collection.

### Monitor

Use the following logs to monitor and troubleshoot:

#### Client

- MBAM event log: in the Windows Event Viewer, browse to Applications and Services > Microsoft > Windows > MBAM
- **BitlockerManagementHandler.log** in client logs path, `%WINDIR%\CCM\Logs` by default

#### Management point

- MBAM Recovery Service event log
- MBAM Recovery Service trace logs: `<Default IIS Web Root>\Microsoft BitLocker Management Solution\Logs\Recovery And Hardware Service\trace*.etl`
