---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/21/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_aadcollsync"></a> Synchronize collection membership results to Microsoft Entra groups

<!--3607475-->
You can now enable the synchronization of collection memberships to a Microsoft Entra group. This synchronization allows you to use your existing on premises grouping rules in the cloud. You can synchronize device collections. Only Microsoft Entra joined devices are synchronized to Microsoft Entra ID. 

The Microsoft Entra synchronization happens every five minutes. It's a one-way process, from Configuration Manager to Microsoft Entra ID. Changes made in Microsoft Entra ID aren't reflected in Configuration Manager collections, but aren't overwritten by Configuration Manager. For example, if the Configuration Manager collection has two devices, and the Microsoft Entra group has three different devices, after synchronization the Microsoft Entra group has five devices.

### Prerequisites

- [Cloud Management](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/azure-services-wizard.md)
- [Microsoft Entra user discovery](../../../../servers/deploy/configure/about-discovery-methods.md#azureaddisc)

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

#### Add group write permission to the app

1. Go to the **Microsoft Entra tenants** node, select the web app for *Cloud Management*, and then select **Update Application Settings** in the ribbon.
1. Select **Yes** and you'll be given a sign in prompt for Azure.
1. Sign in with a user that has group write permission for Microsoft Entra ID.
1. Once you successfully sign in, you'll see a dialog box that reads **Application settings successfully updated**.

<a name='create-collection-azure-ad-group-mapping'></a>

#### Create collection Microsoft Entra group mapping

1. Right-click on a collection and select the **Cloud Sync** tab.
1. Select **Add** to select Microsoft Entra objects.
    - If you need to remove a Microsoft Entra group, select it, then choose **Remove**.
1. Select your tenant then choose **Search**. You'll be prompted to sign in to Azure.
    - You can also type in a partial or full group name before clicking **Search**.
1. Once you sign in, select an *assigned* group from the populated search list, then select **OK**.
1. Select **Apply** to save the collection properties.

#### Limitations

Only one Microsoft Entra tenant is supported. If you have more than one tenant, the results for collection membership synchronization to Microsoft Entra ID are unpredictable.
