---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/21/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_timeout"></a> Configure the default maximum run time for software updates

<!--3734426-->

You can now specify the maximum amount of time a software update installation has to complete. You can specify the maximum run time for the following:

- **Feature updates** - An update that is in one of these three classifications:
    - Upgrades
    - Update rollups
    - Service packs

- **Non-feature updates** - An update that isn't a feature upgrade and whose product is listed as one of the following:
    - Windows 10 (all versions)
    - Windows Server 2012
    - Windows Server 2012 R2
    - Windows Server 2016
    - Windows Server 2019
    - Microsoft 365

All other products and classifications are not configurable with this setting. If you need to change the maximum run time of one of these updates, [configure the software update settings](../../../../../sum/get-started/manage-settings-for-software-updates.md#BKMK_SoftwareUpdatesSettings)

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the **Administration** workspace, expand **Site Configuration** and click on **Sites**.
1. Right-click on your top-level site, and select **Configure Site Components** then **Software Update Point**.
1. In the **Maximum Run Time** tab, modify the values for the following settings: 
   - **Maximum run time for feature updates (minutes)**
   - **Maximum run time for non-feature updates (minutes**)

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> These settings only change the maximum runtime for new updates that are synchronized from Microsoft Update. It doesn't change the run time on existing feature or non-feature updates.

### Known issue

This feature is listed in the **What's New** workspace of this technical preview version, but isn't available yet.
