---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/21/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_restart"></a> More frequent countdown notifications for restarts
<!--3976435-->
End users will now be reminded more frequently of a pending restart with intermittent countdown notifications. The end user will be reminded about restarting their device every 4 hours until the final countdown notification occurs.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. Go to the **Client Settings** node under the **Administration** workspace.
2. Right-click on the client device settings to modify and select **Properties**, or create a new set of custom settings.
3. On the **Computer Restart** page, set the following values:
   - **Display a temporary notification to the user that indicates the interval before the user is logged off or the computer restarts (minutes)** - Indicates the total time given to users to restart the device after software enforcement. The value should be greater than 240 minutes (4 hours) and at least 4 hours greater than the setting for the dialog the user can't close.
      - If the user closes or clicks **Snooze** on the restart notification from the dialog window, the snooze interval is 4 hours until the next temporary notification occurs.
      - When toast notifications are used and the user didn't click on it or notice it, the same toast notification will reoccur in 4 hours. 
      - For more information on what a toast notification is, see [User notifications](../../../../../apps/plan-design/user-notifications.md#replace-toast-notifications-with-dialog-window)
   - **Display a dialog box that the user cannot close, which displays the countdown interval before the user is logged off or the computer restarts (minutes)** - Indicates the time interval for the final countdown notification, which the user can't close. 
      - For example, if the value is  60, the user will see a notification they can't close an hour before restart enforcement. 
      - The final countdown notification will always be a dialog window with the **Snooze** button disabled.
   - **When a deployment requires a restart, show a dialog window to the user instead of a toast notification** 
      - **No** - Toast notifications are used to remind users of the time remaining before restart.
      -  **Yes** - A more intrusive dialog window is used to remind the user of a pending restart.
4. Observe the restart notification behavior on a client after software enforcement. The settings above apply only when software has been installed at the deadline and requires a restart. If a user proactively installed the software before the deadline, they'll see different toast notifications and a different dialog for the restart.
