---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/21/2019


---

## Improved control over WSUS Maintenance
<!--41101009-->

You now have more granular control over the WSUS maintenance tasks that Configuration Manager runs to maintain healthy software update points. In addition to declining expired updates in WSUS, Configuration Manager can now remove obsolete updates from the WSUS database. The WSUS maintenance occurs after every synchronization.

### Permissions

When the WSUS database is on a remote SQL Server, the site server's computer account needs the following SQL Server permissions:

- The `db_datareader` and `db_datawriter` fixed database roles. For more information, see [Database-Level Roles](/sql/relational-databases/security/authentication-access/database-level-roles#fixed-database-roles).
- The `CONNECT SQL` server permission must be granted to the site server's computer account. For more information, see [GRANT Server Permissions (Transact-SQL)](/sql/t-sql/statements/grant-server-permissions-transact-sql).


### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, navigate to **Administration** > **Overview** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites**.

2. Select the site at the top of your Configuration Manager hierarchy.

3. Click **Configure Site Components** in the Settings group, and then click **Software Update Point** to open Software Update Point Component Properties.

4. In the **WSUS Maintenance** tab, select **Remove obsolete updates from the WSUS database**.

The obsolete update removal will be allowed to run for a maximum of 30 minutes before being stopped. It will start up again after the next synchronization occurs.