---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/21/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_retry"></a> Retry the install of pre-approved applications

<!--4336307-->

You can now retry the installation of an app that you previously approved for a user or device. The approval option is only for available deployments. If the user uninstalls the app, or if the initial install process fails, Configuration Manager doesn't reevaluate its state and reinstall it. This feature allows a support technician to quickly retry the app install for a user that calls for help.

### Prerequisites

- Enable the [optional feature](../../../../servers/manage/optional-features.md) **Approve application requests for users per device**.  

- Deploy an app that requires approval, and approve it. For more information, see [Approve applications](../../../../../apps/deploy-use/app-approval.md#bkmk_email-approve).  

    > [!Tip]  
    > Alternatively, use the other new feature in this technical preview version to [Install applications for a device](#bkmk_device-app). It creates an approved request for the app on the device.  

- Your user account needs the **Approve** permission on the Application object. For example, the **Application Administrator** or **Application Author** built-in roles have this permission.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. To test this feature, manually uninstall the app on the device.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Software Library** workspace, expand **Application Management**, and select the **Approval Requests** node.

1. Select the previously approved app. In the Approval Request group of the ribbon, select **Retry install**.
