---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/21/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_device-app"></a> Install applications for a device

<!--4402180-->

From the Configuration Manager console, you can now install applications to a device in real time. This feature can help reduce the need for separate collections for every application.

### Prerequisites

- Enable the [optional feature](../../../../servers/manage/optional-features.md) **Approve application requests for users per device**.  

- Deploy the application as available to the **All Systems** collection.  

    - On the **Deployment Settings** page of the deployment wizard, select the following option: **An administrator must approve a request for this application on the device**.  

        > [!Note]  
        > With these deployment settings, the app isn't shown as available in Software Center. A user can't install the app with this deployment. After you use this action to install the app, the user can run it, and see its installation status in Software Center.

- Your user account needs the following permissions:

    - Application: **Approve**

    - Collection: **View Collected File**

    For example, the **Application Administrator** built-in role has these permissions.

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace, and select the **Devices** node. Select the target device, and then select the **Install application** action in the ribbon.

1. Select one or more applications from the list. The list only shows applications that you already deployed.

This action triggers the installation of the selected pre-deployed applications on the device.

To see status of the approval request, in the **Software Library** workspace, expand **Application Management**, and select the **Approval Requests** node. Monitor the app installation the same as usual in the **Deployments** node of the **Monitoring** workspace.
