---
title: Summary of changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2207
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Article listing changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2207
ms.date: 08/30/2022
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 9271169f-2ec2-415c-b3f3-a2293218ada5
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: dougeby
---

# Summary of changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2207

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2207)*

## Summary of KB14840616
Release version 2207 of Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch contains fixes and feature improvements.
The "Issues that are fixed" list isn't inclusive of all changes. Instead, it highlights changes the product development team believes are most relevant to the broad Configuration Manager customer base. Many of these changes were made in response to customer feedback about product issues and improvements.

##### Notes
- Version 2207 is available as an in-console update that can be installed at the top-tier site in a hierarchy.
- For installation information, see [Checklist for installing update 2207 for System Center Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/checklist-for-installing-update-2207.md).
- For more information about the changes that are included in version 2207, see [What's new in version 2207 of Configuration Manager current branch](../../core/plan-design/changes/whats-new-in-version-2207.md).
- This globally available release contains all of the fixes summarized in the following article.

   KB [14244456](../../hotfix/2203/14244456.md): Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2203

## Issues that are fixed

<!-- 13923149 -->
- The default timeout period for hardware inventory reports is reduced from eight weeks to one week. This reduces the length of time that messages from the client may queue if there is a temporary problem communicating with a management point.
<!-- 2840033 -->
- The **Format and Partition Disk** task sequence step incorrectly sets the *Type* value of a recovery partition to 0x7 instead of 0x27.
<!-- 9421122 -->
- The *IsVirtual* discovery property can incorrectly toggle from a value of 1 to a value of zero when system discovery runs after heartbeat discovery. The value is set back to a 1 after the next heartbeat discovery cycle. 
<!-- 10898529 -->
- Computers with updated BIOS may be duplicated in some collections. This happens because of duplicate information stored in the hardware inventory tables.
<!-- 12554467 -->
- Clients may generate excessive traffic to the Management point while downloading the WebView2 installation files. This happens after enabling the **Display custom tabs with Microsoft Edge WebView2 runtime** client setting. This update adds randomization to the WebView2 download process to reduce overall management point load.
<!-- 13177588 -->
- The **New-CMFolder** PowerShell cmdlet allows invalid characters as input for folder names. This prevents later modification of the folder name in the Configuration Manager console.
<!-- 13464778 -->
- The **Get-CMObjectSecurityScope** PowerShell cmdlet doesn't work when run against a folder. The following error is logged by the cmdlet.
   ```text
   WARNING: Unrecognized object type 'SMS_ObjectContainerNode'. Could not retrieve object security scope.
   ```
<!-- 14022391 -->
- The legend values in antimalware reports are displayed as placeholders such as "_1", "_2", instead of their correct localized names.
<!-- 14563799 -->
- Default hardware inventory classes may be disabled when installing a new Configuration Manager client.
<!-- 14567825 -->
- The task sequence *Install application* step now captures the correct executable name - smsappinstall.exe - in the smsts.log file.
<!-- 14716643 -->
- Logging for the SMS_Service_Connector component is enhanced for easier troubleshooting. 
<!-- 14918873 -->
- The data warehouse process (Microsoft.ConfigMgrDataWarehouse.exe) may terminate unexpectedly in large environments when SQL change tracking is enabled.
<!-- 15037050 -->
- Heartbeat discovery data records (DDR files) from Windows 365 Cloud PC clients are rejected. The following error is recorded in the ddm.log file on the site server.
   ```text
   CDiscoveryPropertyBase::Validate - Max width of property "CloudPCInfo" exceeds maximum 900 characters
   ```
<!-- 14916633 -->
- If the **Upload to Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center** option is disabled and re-enabled in Cloud Attach properties, the option for **Role-based Access Control** can't be enabled again. 
<!-- 14727900 -->
- The **Native client app** value is blank after completing the Azure Services wizard.
<!-- 14960789 -->
- The Search tab disappears from the Configuration Manager console after completing a search on a top level node, or after changing options from *Current Node* to *All Subfolders*.

## Hotfixes that are included in this update
- KB [14480034](../../hotfix/2203/14480034.md): Registration fails for PKI clients after updating to Configuration Manager current branch, version 2203
- KB [14244456](../../hotfix/2203/14244456.md): Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2203