---
title: Connected cache update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2203
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Console update for 2203
ms.date: 8/29/2022
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 006f3396-a9d0-44f8-9db1-6408259e405ef
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: dougeby
---

# Connected cache update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2103 - 2207

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, versions 2103 - 2207)*
## Summary of KB14978429

An update is available that fixes the following issues with the Microsoft Connected Cache feature in Configuration Manager current branch, versions 2103 - 2207.
 
- Incorrect access control list (ACL) set on the cache folder prevents installations from completing in some environments.
- Uninstall race condition that prevents a scheduled task from being cleaned up as expected.
 
In addition, the following enhancements are included in this release.

- Added general supportability enhancements to improve logging, troubleshooting, and discoverability of error conditions.
- Added support for the latest Office Click-to-Run (C2R) host.
- Decreased installation time by approximately 30 percent.

## Update information for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager
The following hotfix to resolve this problem is available for download from the Microsoft Download Center:

[Download this hotfix now](https://download.microsoft.com/download/8/e/d/8ed826e2-0a9d-4160-a1a0-725efa0d0971/1.5.5.14088/DoincInstall.exe).

After you download this hotfix, refer to the following installation instructions.

## Installation instructions
1. Confirm there is not currently an installation of the MCC component in progress. This is done by checking for status message **9522**, generated by the `SMS_DISTRIBUTION_MANAGER` component. The 9522 message indicates that installation is no longer being retried.
2. Copy the new version of `DoincInstall.exe`, version **1.5.5.9002**, to the `{SMSInstallDir}\bin\x64` folder on all site servers, including the Central Administration Site (CAS) if present, and any passive sites.
3. Uncheck the **Enable this distribution point to be used as Microsoft Connected Cache server** option in the affected distribution point’s properties.
4. Wait for the uninstall of MCC to complete on the distribution point. This can be confirmed by looking for a **9152** success status message, combined with the following entry in `distmgr.log`.
   ```text
   Finished waiting for DoincInstall. InvocationState: UninstallCompleted. InvocationExitCode: 0. InvocationMessage: .
   ```
5. Recheck the **Enable this distribution point to be used as Microsoft Connected Cache server** option for the affected distribution point.

   > [!TIP]
   > For sites with a large number of distribution points, replace steps 3 - 5 above with the following.
   > - Create an empty file named `resetdps.trn` and place it in the `{SMSInstallDir}\inboxes\distmgr.box` folder. This will reinstall all distribution points for that site using the latest version of `DoincInstall.exe` copied in step 2. above. 

## Prerequisites
To apply this hotfix, you must be using Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager, versions 2103 through versions 2203.

## Restart information
You don't have to restart the computer after you apply this hotfix. 

## Hotfix replacement information
This hotfix replaces the following previously released hotfix.

[KB12819689 Connected cache update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2111](../../hotfix/2111/12819689.md)

## File information
File information is available in the downloadable [KB14978429_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB14978429_FileList) text file.

## Release history
- August 29, 2022: Initial hotfix release
