---
title: Summary of changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2303
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Article listing changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2303
ms.date: 04/28/2023
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: e42853c3-df96-44fd-82c1-2377553ed682
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: apoorvseth
ms.reviewer: mstewart,aaroncz 
ms.collection: tier3
---

# Summary of changes in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2303

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2303)*

## Summary of KB16900870
Release version 2303 of Configuration Manager current branch contains fixes and feature improvements.
The "Issues that are fixed" list isn't inclusive of all changes. Instead, it highlights changes the product development team believes are most relevant to the broad Configuration Manager customer base. These changes were made in response to direct customer feedback about product issues and improvements.

##### Notes
- Version 2303 is available as an in-console update that can be installed at the top-tier site in a hierarchy.
- For installation information, see [Checklist for installing update 2303 for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/checklist-for-installing-update-2303.md).
- For more information about the changes that are included in version 2303, see [What's new in version 2303 of Configuration Manager current branch](../../core/plan-design/changes/whats-new-in-version-2303.md).
- This globally available release contains all of the fixes summarized in the following article.

   KB [15152495](../../hotfix/2211/16643863.md): Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2211

## Issues that are fixed
<!-- 14203839 -->
- Task sequences that run for longer than 8 hours show a completion status of "In Progress". This happens even if the applications install successfully on the target clients.

<!-- 14839263 -->
- Active Directory Forest Discovery is updated to add the correct support for verbose logging. To enable this feature, set the *Verbose Logs* value to **1** under the registry key `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\SMS\COMPONENTS\SMS_AD_FOREST_DISCOVERY_MANAGER`.

<!-- 15544014 -->
- Promotion of a passive site server to active fails if the Windows 11 Assessment and Deployment Kit (ADK) and windows PE add-on is installed on the passive node. FailoverMgr.log contains entries similar to the following:
   ```text
   INFO: Attempting to export x86 boot image from ADK installation source
   Failed to call method ExportDefaultBootImage (80041001)
   Failed to export default x86 boot image package (80041001)
   ```

<!-- 16646226 -->
- Duplicate registry keys with a trailing space in the name are left behind after updating to a later version of Configuration Manager. This affects Active Directory User, System, and Security Group discovery components. The incorrect keys are now removed during the update to version 2303 or later.

<!-- 16674217 -->
- Clients are unable to download software updates directly from Windows Server Update Services (WSUS) on Windows Server 2016. This happens because the option to use Delivery Optimization is automatically enabled, even when the *Allow clients to download delta content when available* option is set to **No**.

<!-- 16780281 -->
- The *Run Script* functions don't work as expected when combined with enforcement of a Windows Defender Access Control (WDAC) policy on the client.

<!-- 16945063 -->
- PowerShell scripts that combine strings and integers as parameters may fail to run from Configuration Manager. An error resembling the following is recorded when trying to run the script manually.
   ```text
   Unable to cast object of type 'System.Int32' to type 'System.String'.
   ```

## Hotfixes that are included in this update
- KB [15152495](../../hotfix/2211/16643863.md): Update rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2211

<!-- ## Dependency changes ##
- Microsoft ODBC Client -->