---
title: Slow data processing in Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2303
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Data processing update for Configuration Manager 2303
ms.date: 08/07/2023
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 94a9cdb9-76d4-46b6-81f2-74a86b616ec3
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: dougeby
---

# Slow data processing in Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2303 after installing KB 21010486

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2303)*

## Summary of KB24721208
<!-- 24721208 -->
An update is available to resolve the following issue that occurs after installing [KB 21010486](../../hotfix/2303/21010486.md), *Update rollup for Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2303*:
- Administrators may notice an overall performance degradation when data is processed into the site database. Queries or collections based on user discovery data can take longer than expected to process. When this occurs, other processes can be affected, such as policy updates and site to site replication.

This update corrects affected SQL views in the site database to prevent the issues described.

## Update information for Microsoft Configuration Manager current branch, version 2303

This update is available in the Updates and Servicing node of the Configuration Manager console for version 2303 environments that installed [KB 21010486](../../hotfix/2303/21010486.md) on or before August 2, 2023.

### Restart information

This update doesn't require a computer restart or a [site reset](../../core/servers/manage/modify-your-infrastructure.md#bkmk_reset) after installation.

### Additional installation information

After you install this update on a primary site, pre-existing secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. Configurations and settings for the secondary site aren't affected by this reinstallation. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:
   ```sql
   select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
   ```
If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.

If the value 0 is returned, the site has not installed all the fixes that are applied to the primary site, and you should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.

## Version information
No major components are updated with this hotfix.

## File information
File information for is available in the downloadable [KB24721208_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB24721208_FileList) text file.

## Release history
- August 7, 2023: Initial hotfix release

## References
[Updates and servicing for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/updates.md)