---
title: Management point security update for Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2303
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Management point security update for Configuration Manager 2303
ms.date: 09/05/2024
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: b8cb0347-a26c-46e2-8ddd-8ddd61cd89a4
author: baladelli
ms.author: baladell
manager: apoorvseth
---

# Management point security update for Configuration Manager 2303

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2303)*

## Summary of KB29166583
<!-- 29166583 -->
An update is available to harden the security of Configuration Manager environment. The update improves the security of connections between the management point and site server database. 

  > [!NOTE]
  > For enhanced security posture it is recommended to leverage alternate account rather than Computer account for ‘Management point connection account’.

Installation of this update resolves the following security issue:

•	CVE-2024-43468 

### Known issues

We have identified an issue after installing the hotfix. Hence this KB is no longer applicable to install and we will republish this once a fix has been identified.

### Update information for Microsoft Configuration Manager current branch, version 2303

This update is available in the Updates and Servicing node of the Configuration Manager console for version 2303 environments.

### Restart information

This update doesn't require a computer restart or a [site reset](../../core/servers/manage/modify-your-infrastructure.md#bkmk_reset) after installation.

### Additional installation information

After you install this update on a primary site, preexisting secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. Configurations and settings for the secondary site aren't affected by this reinstallation. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:
   ```sql
   select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
   ```
If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.

If the value 0 is returned, the site hasn't installed all the fixes that are applied to the primary site, and you should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.

## File information
File information is available in the downloadable [KB29166583_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB29166583_FileList_2303) text file.

## Release history
- September 4, 2024: Initial hotfix release
- September 5, 2024: Hotfix revoked

## References
[Updates and servicing for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/updates.md)
