memdocs/autopilot/tutorial/user-driven/azure-ad-join-device-group.md, before:

---
title: Windows Autopilot user-driven Azure AD join - Step 4 of 7 - Create a device group
description: How to - Windows Autopilot user-driven Azure AD join - Step 4 of 7 - Create a device group.
ms.prod: windows-client
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: frankroj
ms.author: frankroj
ms.reviewer: jubaptis
manager: aaroncz
ms.date: 02/13/2023
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.collection: 
  - tier1
  - highpri
ms.technology: itpro-deploy
---

# User-driven Azure AD join: Create a device group

Autopilot user-driven Azure AD join steps:
- Step 1: [Set up Windows automatic Intune enrollment](azure-ad-join-automatic-enrollment.md)
- Step 2: [Allow users to join devices to Azure AD](azure-ad-join-allow-users-to-join.md)
- Step 3: [Register devices as Autopilot devices](azure-ad-join-register-device.md)
> [!div class="checklist"]
> - **Step 4: Create a device group**
- Step 5: [Configure and assign Autopilot Enrollment Status Page (ESP)](azure-ad-join-esp.md)
- Step 6: [Create and assign Autopilot profile](azure-ad-join-autopilot-profile.md)
- Step 7: [Assign Autopilot device to a user (optional)](azure-ad-join-assign-device-to-user.md)

For an overview of the Windows Autopilot user-driven Azure AD join workflow, see [Windows Autopilot user-driven Azure AD join overview](azure-ad-join-workflow.md)

## Create a device group

[!INCLUDE [How to create a device group in Intune](../includes/create-device-group.md)]

## Next step: Configure and assign the Enrollment Status Page (ESP)

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Step 5: Configure and assign Autopilot Enrollment Status Page (ESP)](azure-ad-join-esp.md)

## More information

[!INCLUDE [More information device group](../includes/more-info-device-group.md)]

Commit message:

Autopilot User-Driven step by step 40

memdocs/autopilot/tutorial/user-driven/azure-ad-join-device-group.md, after:

---
title: Windows Autopilot user-driven Azure AD join - Step 4 of 7 - Create a device group
description: How to - Windows Autopilot user-driven Azure AD join - Step 4 of 7 - Create a device group.
ms.prod: windows-client
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: frankroj
ms.author: frankroj
ms.reviewer: jubaptis
manager: aaroncz
ms.date: 02/13/2023
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.collection: 
  - tier1
  - highpri
ms.technology: itpro-deploy
---

# User-driven Azure AD join: Create a device group

Autopilot user-driven Azure AD join steps:
- Step 1: [Set up Windows automatic Intune enrollment](azure-ad-join-automatic-enrollment.md)
- Step 2: [Allow users to join devices to Azure AD](azure-ad-join-allow-users-to-join.md)
- Step 3: [Register devices as Autopilot devices](azure-ad-join-register-device.md)
> [!div class="checklist"]
> - **Step 4: Create a device group**
- Step 5: [Configure and assign Autopilot Enrollment Status Page (ESP)](azure-ad-join-esp.md)
- Step 6: [Create and assign Autopilot profile](azure-ad-join-autopilot-profile.md)
- Step 7: [Assign Autopilot device to a user (optional)](azure-ad-join-assign-device-to-user.md)

For an overview of the Windows Autopilot user-driven Azure AD join workflow, see [Windows Autopilot user-driven Azure AD join overview](azure-ad-join-workflow.md)

> [!NOTE]
>
> If you've already created device groups from another Autopilot scenario, you can skip this step and move on to [Step 5: Configure and assign Autopilot Enrollment Status Page (ESP)](azure-ad-join-esp.md). However, be aware that if you're deploying multiple different Autopilot scenarios to different devices, separate device groups will be required for each Autopilot scenario.

## Create a device group

[!INCLUDE [How to create a device group in Intune](../includes/create-device-group.md)]

## Next step: Configure and assign the Enrollment Status Page (ESP)

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Step 5: Configure and assign Autopilot Enrollment Status Page (ESP)](azure-ad-join-esp.md)

## More information

[!INCLUDE [More information device group](../includes/more-info-device-group.md)]
