---
title: Tenant attach data collection
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Learn about the diagnostics data that Configuration Manager collects for tenant attach features.
ms.date: 07/31/2020
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: 4b305a71-9ad8-4332-9692-d51554158981
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
manager: dougeby
---

# Tenant attach data collection

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch)*

<!-- 6505626 -->
When you attach your Configuration Manager site with a Microsoft Intune tenant, the site sends additional data to Microsoft. This article summarizes the data that's sent.

Tenant attach makes the Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center your console in the cloud. The architecture allows the Configuration Manager site to synchronize data about the device and the user to your Intune tenant. You can then query and present data from your on-premises environment in the cloud console in real time without active synchronization. It can fetch large volatile data from your on-premises site. Tenant attach uses a mixture of these methods to provide efficient up-to-date information in the cloud console.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The Microsoft data handling policies are described in the [Microsoft Intune Privacy Statement](https://docs.microsoft.com/legal/intune/microsoft-intune-privacy-statement). We only use your customer data to provide you the services you signed up for.
>
> We do not sell any data collected by our service to any third parties for any reason.

Microsoft Endpoint Manager collects information that falls into three categories:

- **Identified data**: Most data that Microsoft Endpoint Manager collects is identified data. This data is tied to a user, device, or application and is essential to the nature of management. Identified data is used to manage a user's device and applications.

- **Pseudonymized data**: This data is associated with a unique identifier. It's typically a number generated by the system that on its own can't identify an individual person. Microsoft Endpoint Manager uses this data to deliver the enterprise service.

- **Aggregated data**: This data is usage statistics such as the number of devices or which controls you use in the Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center.

The following sections provide examples of the types of data that tenant attach synchronizes to the cloud. They're grouped by functional entity, so you can review for specific features that you're using.

## Applications
<!-- 6502080 -->

For each Windows Installer (msi) deployment type:

- **ProductName**: The name of the application
- **Publisher**: The entity that published the software
- **Version**: The version of the application
- **ProductLanguage**: The language code for the application
- **ProgramID**: An identifier for the deployment type

## Device sync
<!-- 6505639 -->

For each device:

- **SMSID**: The unique identifier of your Configuration Manager hierarchy
- **AADTenantID**: The unique identifier of your Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant
- **AADDeviceID**: The unique identifier of the device in Azure AD
- **Name**: The device's host name
- **DeviceOS**: The name of the device's operating system. For example, `Microsoft Windows NT Server 6.3`
- **DeviceOSBuild**: The build version of the device's operating system. For example, `10.0.19041`
- **AADPrimaryUserID**: The unique identifier of the device's primary user in Azure AD
- **Model**: The device model
- **Manufacturer**: The device manufacturer
- **SerialNumber**: The device serial number
- **DomainNames**: Any domain names for the device
- **SKU**

## Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection (ATP)
<!-- 6505652 -->

For any collection that you select for ATP policy deployment:

- **CollectionId**: The unique identifier of the collection. For example, `ABC00014`
- **CollectionName**: The name of the collection. For example, `All Windows servers`
- **CollectionType**: Identifies whether it's a device or user collection.
- **CountTargeted**: The count of devices that you target with this policy
- **CountCompliant**: The count of devices that are compliant with this policy
- **CountNonCompliant**: The count of devices that aren't compliant with this policy
- **CountFailed**: The count of devices that failed to process this policy
- **CountActivated**
- **CountEnforced**

## ***Remove before publish***

### Sync health
<!-- 6505654 -->

Microsoft Endpoint Manager uses this information to determine the health of the tenant attach synchronization process. This data can help with troubleshooting.

The following table shows several examples of health checks:

| Name | Value string |
|---------|---------|
|Hierarchy ID|`/kvJRsQ2p9hu4VUZGN11acFUV8MzE+iCRAfNpKzZS08=`|
|HotfixVersion|`1022`|
|Site full version|`5.00.8968.1000`|
|Total clients in hierarchy|`1516`|
|Total clients synced to tenant attach|`1516`|

<!-- NOTE: These examples are all contrived. The hierarchy ID is faked using the ms.assetid of this article. -->

### Boundary analytics
<!-- 6505630 -->

- **GroupId**: Boundary group ID
- **GroupGuid**: Autogenerated GUID for use by Windows Delivery Optimization content routing
- **Name**: Boundary group name
- **Flags**: Determines the configuration of the boundary group options
- **DefaultSiteCode**: The assigned site for this boundary group
- **IsBuiltIn**: Whether it's a default or custom boundary group
- **SourceGroupId**: The source boundary group of a relationship
- **DestinationGroupId**: The destination boundary group of a relationship
- **FallbackDP**: Time to fall back for DP in this site system
- **FallbackMP**: Time to fall back for MP in this site system
- **FallbackSmp**: Time to fall back for SMP in this site system
- **FallbackSup**: Time to fall back for SUP in this site system

## See also

For more general information on the data that Configuration Manager collects, see [Diagnostics and usage data for Configuration Manager](../core/plan-design/diagnostics/diagnostics-and-usage-data.md).

For more information about related privacy aspects, see the following articles:

- [Microsoft Intune Privacy Statement](https://docs.microsoft.com/legal/intune/microsoft-intune-privacy-statement)
- [Windows 10 and privacy compliance](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/privacy/windows-10-and-privacy-compliance)
- [Licensing terms and documentation](https://www.microsoftvolumelicensing.com/DocumentSearch.aspx?Mode=3&DocumentTypeId=31)  
- [Security and privacy at Microsoft Azure data centers](https://azure.microsoft.com/global-infrastructure/)  
- [Confidence in the trusted cloud](https://azure.microsoft.com/overview/trusted-cloud/)  
- [Trust Center](https://www.microsoft.com/trustcenter)  
