memdocs/intune/remote-actions/devices-wipe.md, before:

---
# required metadata

title: Retire or wipe devices using Microsoft Intune
description: Retire or wipe a device on an Android, Android work profile, iOS/iPadOS, macOS, or Windows device using Microsoft Intune. Also delete a device from Azure Active Directory.
keywords:
author: Smritib17
ms.author: smbhardwaj
manager: dougeby
ms.date: 01/09/2022
ms.topic: how-to
ms.service: microsoft-intune
ms.subservice: remote-actions
ms.localizationpriority: high

# optional metadata

#ROBOTS:
#audience:

ms.reviewer:
ms.suite: ems
search.appverid: MET150
#ms.tgt_pltfrm:
ms.custom: intune-azure
ms.collection:
- tier1
- M365-identity-device-management
- highpri
---

# Remove devices by using wipe, retire, or manually unenrolling the device

[!INCLUDE [azure_portal](../includes/azure_portal.md)]

By using the **Retire** or **Wipe** actions, you can remove devices from Intune that are no longer needed, being repurposed, or missing. Users can also issue a remote command from the Intune Company Portal to devices that are enrolled in Intune.

## Wipe

The **Wipe** action restores a device to its factory default settings. The user data is kept if you choose the **Retain enrollment state and user account** checkbox. Otherwise, all data, apps, and settings will be removed.

|Wipe action|**Retain enrollment state and user account**|Removed from Intune management|Description|
|:-------------:|:------------:|:------------:|------------|
|**Wipe**| Not checked | Yes | Wipes all user accounts, data, MDM policies, and settings. Resets the operating system to its default state and settings.|
|**Wipe**| Checked | No | Wipes all MDM Policies. Keeps user accounts and data. Resets user settings back to default. Resets the operating system to its default state and settings.|

> [!NOTE]
> The Wipe action is not available for iOS/iPadOS devices enrolled with User Enrollment. To create a User Enrollment profile: [Set up iOS/iPadOS and iPadOS User Enrollment](../enrollment/ios-user-enrollment.md)

The **Retain enrollment state and user account** option is only available for Windows 10 version 1709 or later.

MDM policies will be reapplied the next time the device connects to Intune.

A wipe is useful for resetting a device before you give the device to a new user, or when the device has been lost or stolen. Be careful about selecting **Wipe**. Data on the device cannot be recovered. The method that "Wipe" uses to remove data is simple file deletion, and the drive is BitLocker decrypted as part of this process. 

### Wiping a device

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).
2. Select **Devices** > **All devices**.
3. Select the name of the device that you want to wipe.
4. In the pane that shows the device name, select **Wipe**.
5. For Windows 10 version 1709 or later, you also have the **Wipe device, but keep enrollment state and associated user account** option. If this option is selected, the following will apply:

    |Retained during a wipe |Not retained|
    | -------------|------------|
    |User accounts associated with the device|User files|
    |Machine state \(domain join, Azure AD-joined)| User-installed apps \(store and Win32 apps)|
    |Mobile device management (MDM) enrollment|Non-default device settings|
    |OEM-installed apps \(store and Win32 apps)||
    |User profile||
    |User data outside of the user profile||
    |User autologon||

6. The **Wipe device, and continue to wipe even if device loses power** option makes sure that the wipe action can't be circumvented by turning off the device. This option will keep trying to reset the device until successful. In some configurations, this action may leave the device [unable to reboot](/troubleshoot/mem/intune/troubleshoot-device-actions#wipe-action).
7. For iOS/iPadOS eSIM devices, the cellular data plan is preserved by default when you wipe a device. If you want to remove the data plan from the device when you wipe the device, select the **Also remove the devices data plan...** option.
8. To confirm the wipe, select **Yes**.

If the device is on and connected, the **Wipe** action propagates across all device types in less than 15 minutes.

## Retire

The **Retire** action removes managed app data (where applicable), settings, and email profiles that were assigned by using Intune. The device is removed from Intune management. Removal happens the next time the device checks in and receives the remote **Retire** action. The device still shows up in Intune until the device checks in. If you want to remove stale devices immediately, use the [Delete action](devices-wipe.md#delete-devices-from-the-intune-admin-center) instead.

**Retire** leaves the user's personal data on the device.  

The following tables describe what data is removed, and the effect of the **Retire** action on data that remains on the device after company data is removed.

### iOS

|Data type|iOS|
|-------------|-------|
|Company apps and associated data installed by Intune|**Apps installed using Company Portal:** For apps that are pinned to the management profile, all app data and the apps are removed. These apps include apps originally installed from App Store and later managed as company apps unless the app is configured to not be uninstalled on device removal. <br /><br /> **Microsoft apps that use App Protection Policies and were installed from App Store:** When a Retire action is initiated against an enrolled device, Intune also initiates a [selective wipe](../apps/apps-selective-wipe.md) for apps (including those installed from the App Store) that have work or school account data protected by an [App Protection Policy](../apps/app-protection-policy.md). The next time the app is launched, the selective wipe removes the protected work or school account data. In order for the selective wipe to occur, an App Protection Policy check-in must occur between the MDM enrollment and retire events. Personal app data and the apps are not removed after a selective wipe.|
|Settings|Configurations that were set by Intune policy are no longer enforced. Users can change the settings.|
|Wi-Fi and VPN profile settings|Removed.|
|Certificate profile settings|Certificates are removed and revoked.|
|Management agent|The management profile is removed.|
|Email|Email profiles that are provisioned through Intune are removed. Cached email on the device is deleted.|
|AAD Device Record |The Azure AD record is not removed.|

### Android device administrator

|Data type|Android|Android Samsung Knox Standard|
|-------------|-----------|------------------------|
|Web links|Removed.|Removed.|
|Unmanaged Google Play apps|Apps and data remain installed. <br /> <br />Company app data that's protected by Mobile Application Management (MAM) encryption within the app local storage is removed. Data that's protected by MAM encryption outside the app remains encrypted and unusable, but isn't removed. |Apps and data remain installed. <br /> <br />Company app data that's protected by Mobile Application Management (MAM) encryption within the app local storage is removed. Data that's protected by MAM encryption outside the app remains encrypted and unusable, but isn't removed.|
|Unmanaged line-of-business apps|Apps and data remain installed.|Apps are uninstalled and data that's local to the app is removed. No data that's outside the app (for example, on an SD card) is removed.|
|Managed Google Play apps|App data is removed. The app isn't removed. Data that's protected by Mobile Application Management (MAM) encryption outside the app (for example, an SD card) remains encrypted and unusable, but isn't removed.|App data is removed. The app isn't removed. Data that's protected by MAM encryption outside the app (for example, an SD card) remains encrypted, but isn't removed.|
|Managed line-of-business apps|App data is removed. The app isn't removed. Data that's protected by MAM encryption outside the app (for example, an SD card) remains encrypted and unusable, but isn't removed.|App data is removed. The app isn't removed. Data that's protected by MAM encryption outside the app (for example, an SD card) remains encrypted and unusable, but isn't removed.|
|Settings|Configurations that were set by Intune policy are no longer enforced. Users can change the settings.|Configurations that were set by Intune policy are no longer enforced. Users can change the settings.|
|Wi-Fi and VPN profile settings|Removed.|Removed.|
|Certificate profile settings|Certificates are revoked but not removed.|Certificates are removed and revoked.|
|Management agent|Device Administrator privilege is revoked.|Device Administrator privilege is revoked.|
|Email|N/A (Email profiles aren't supported by Android devices)|Email profiles that are provisioned through Intune are removed. Cached email on the device is deleted.|
|Azure AD unjoin|The Azure AD record is removed.|The Azure AD record is removed.|

### Android Enterprise personally-owned devices with a work profile

Removing company data from an Android personally-owned work profile device removes all data, apps, and settings in the work profile on that device. The device is retired from management with Intune. Wipe is not supported for Android personally-owned work profiles.

### Android Enterprise Dedicated, Fully Managed, and Corporate-Owned Work Profile devices
 - The **Wipe** action is supported on Android Enterprise Dedicated, Fully Managed, and Corporate-Owned Work Profile devices.

 - The **Retire** action is supported on Android Enterprise Corporate-Owned Work Profile devices. When the **Retire** action is used on Android Enterprise Corporate-Owned Work Profile devices, the device is unenrolled from Intune management. The work profile is removed along with all corporate data and applications, but all the personal data and applications remain on the device.


### macOS

|Data type|macOS|
|-------------|-------|
|Settings|Configurations that were set by Intune policy are no longer enforced. Users can change the settings.|
|Wi-Fi and VPN profile settings|Removed.|
|Certificate profile settings|Certificates that were deployed through MDM are removed and revoked.|
|Management agent|The management profile is removed.|
|Outlook|If Conditional Access is enabled, the device doesn't receive new mail.|
|AAD Device Record |The Azure AD record is not removed.|

### Windows

|Data type|Windows 8.1 (MDM) and Windows RT 8.1|Windows RT|Windows 10|
|-------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|-----------------------------------------|
|Company apps and associated data installed by Intune|Keys are revoked for files that are protected by EFS. The user can't open the files.|Company apps aren't removed.|Apps are uninstalled. Sideloading keys are removed.<br>For Windows 10 version 1709 (Creators Update) and later, Microsoft 365 Apps aren't removed. Intune management extension installed Win32 apps will not be uninstalled on unenrolled devices. Admins can leverage assignment exclusion to not offer Win32 apps to BYOD Devices.|
|Settings|Configurations that were set by Intune policy are no longer enforced. Users can change the settings.|Configurations that were set by Intune policy are no longer enforced. Users can change the settings.|Configurations that were set by Intune policy are no longer enforced. Users can change the settings.|
|Wi-Fi and VPN profile settings|Removed.|Removed.|Removed.|
|Certificate profile settings|Certificates are removed and revoked.|Certificates are removed and revoked.|Certificates are removed and revoked.|
|Email|Removes email that's EFS-enabled. This includes emails and attachments in the Mail app for Windows.|Not supported.|Removes email that's EFS-enabled. This includes emails and attachments in the Mail app for Windows. Removes mail accounts that were provisioned by Intune.|
|Azure AD unjoin|No.|No.|The Azure AD record is removed.|

> [!NOTE]
> For Windows 10 devices that join Azure AD during initial Setup (OOBE), the retire command will remove all Azure AD accounts from the device. Follow the steps at [Start your PC in Safe mode](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/12376/windows-10-start-your-pc-in-safe-mode) to login as a local admin and regain access to the user's local data. 

### Retire

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).
2. In the **Devices** pane, select **All devices**.
3. Select the name of the device that you want to retire.
4. In the pane that shows the device name, select **Retire**. To confirm, select **Yes**.

If the device is on and connected, the **Retire** action propagates across all device types in less than 15 minutes.

## Manually un-enroll devices

Device owners can manually un-enroll their devices as explained in the following end user help articles:

- [Remove device from Company Portal for Android](../user-help/unenroll-your-device-from-intune-android.md)
- [Remove device from Company Portal for iOS app](../user-help/unenroll-your-device-from-intune-ios.md)
- [Remove device from Company Portal for macOS app](../user-help/unenroll-your-device-from-intune-macos.md)
- [Remove your Windows device from management](../user-help/unenroll-your-device-from-intune-windows.md)

> [!TIP]
> When a Windows device user un-enrolls their device via the Settings app, Intune does not automatically delete the Intune device or Azure AD records. To remove record of the Intune device, sign in to Microsoft Intune and delete the device manually, or wait for your device cleanup rules to take effect. You must also manually delete the Azure AD record, if applicable, because the cleanups rule will not remove it.  

## Delete devices from the Intune admin center

If you want to remove devices from the Intune admin center, you can delete them from the specific device pane. The next time the device checks in, any company data on it will be removed as Intune also retires a device when deleting it from the admin center.

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).
2. Choose **Devices** > **All devices** > choose the devices you want to delete > **Delete**.

### Automatically delete devices with cleanup rules

You can configure Intune to automatically remove devices that appear to be inactive, stale, or unresponsive. These cleanup rules continuously monitor your device inventory so that your device records stay current. Devices deleted in this way are removed from Intune management. This setting affects all devices managed by Intune, not just specific ones.

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).
2. Choose **Devices** > **Device cleanup rules** > **Yes**.
3. In the **Delete devices that haven't checked in for this many days** box, enter a number between 30 and 270.
4. Choose **Save**.

If a removed device checks in before its device certification expires, it will reappear in the admin center.

The device clean up rule doesn't trigger a wipe or retire.

> [!NOTE]
> Device cleanup rules aren't available for Jamf-managed devices.
>
> You need the permission **Managed Device Cleanup Settings with Update** set to **Yes** to update the device cleanup rules. This permission is part of [Intune Roles](../fundamentals/role-based-access-control.md).

## Delete devices from the Azure Active Directory portal

You might need to delete devices from Azure AD due to communication issues or missing devices. You can use the **Delete** action to remove device records from the Azure portal for devices that you know are unreachable and unlikely to communicate with Azure again. The **Delete** action doesn't remove a device from management.

1. Sign in to [Azure Active Directory in the Azure portal](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/active-directory/) by using your admin credentials. You can also sign in to the [Microsoft 365 admin center](https://admin.microsoft.com). From the menu, select **Admin centers** > **Azure AD**.
2. Create an Azure subscription if you don't have one. This shouldn't require a credit card or payment if you have a paid account (select the **Register your free Azure Active Directory** subscription link).
3. Select **Azure Active Directory**, and then select your organization.
4. Select the **Users** tab.
5. Select the user that's associated with the device that you want to delete.
6. Select **Devices**.
7. Remove devices as appropriate. For example, you might remove devices that are no longer in use, or devices that have inaccurate definitions.

## Retire an Apple ADE device from Intune

If you want to completely remove an Apple automated device enrollment (ADE) device from management by Intune, follow these steps:

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).
2. Choose **Devices** > **All devices** > choose the device > **Retire**.
3. Visit [business.apple.com](http://business.apple.com) and search for the device by its serial number.
4. In the **Assigned to** menu, choose **Unassigned**.

5. Choose **Reassign**.

    ![Screenshot for Apple reassign](./media/devices-wipe/apple-reassign.png)

## Device states

For a description of device states, see the [managementStates collection](../developer/intune-data-warehouse-collections.md#managementstates).

## Fresh Start

Applicable for Windows 10 devices. Read more about [Fresh Start](device-fresh-start.md).

## Next steps

If you want to reenroll a deleted device, see [Enrollment options](../enrollment/enrollment-options.md).

Commit message:

Remote action effects on bitlocker profiles

memdocs/intune/remote-actions/devices-wipe.md, after:

---
# required metadata

title: Retire or wipe devices using Microsoft Intune
description: Retire or wipe a device on an Android, Android work profile, iOS/iPadOS, macOS, or Windows device using Microsoft Intune. Also delete a device from Azure Active Directory.
keywords:
author: Smritib17
ms.author: smbhardwaj
manager: dougeby
ms.date: 01/09/2022
ms.topic: how-to
ms.service: microsoft-intune
ms.subservice: remote-actions
ms.localizationpriority: high

# optional metadata

#ROBOTS:
#audience:

ms.reviewer:
ms.suite: ems
search.appverid: MET150
#ms.tgt_pltfrm:
ms.custom: intune-azure
ms.collection:
- tier1
- M365-identity-device-management
- highpri
---

# Remove devices by using wipe, retire, or manually unenrolling the device

[!INCLUDE [azure_portal](../includes/azure_portal.md)]

By using the **Retire** or **Wipe** actions, you can remove devices from Intune that are no longer needed, being repurposed, or missing. Users can also issue a remote command from the Intune Company Portal to devices that are enrolled in Intune.

## Wipe

The **Wipe** action restores a device to its factory default settings. The user data is kept if you choose the **Retain enrollment state and user account** checkbox. Otherwise, all data, apps, and settings will be removed.

|Wipe action|**Retain enrollment state and user account**|Removed from Intune management|Description|
|:-------------:|:------------:|:------------:|------------|
|**Wipe**| Not checked | Yes | Wipes all user accounts, data, MDM policies, and settings. Resets the operating system to its default state and settings.|
|**Wipe**| Checked | No | Wipes all MDM Policies. Keeps user accounts and data. Resets user settings back to default. Resets the operating system to its default state and settings.|

> [!NOTE]
> The Wipe action is not available for iOS/iPadOS devices enrolled with User Enrollment. To create a User Enrollment profile: [Set up iOS/iPadOS and iPadOS User Enrollment](../enrollment/ios-user-enrollment.md)

The **Retain enrollment state and user account** option is only available for Windows 10 version 1709 or later.

MDM policies will be reapplied the next time the device connects to Intune.

A wipe is useful for resetting a device before you give the device to a new user, or when the device has been lost or stolen. Be careful about selecting **Wipe**. Data on the device cannot be recovered. The method that "Wipe" uses to remove data is simple file deletion, and the drive is BitLocker decrypted as part of this process. 

### Wiping a device

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).
2. Select **Devices** > **All devices**.
3. Select the name of the device that you want to wipe.
4. In the pane that shows the device name, select **Wipe**.
5. For Windows 10 version 1709 or later, you also have the **Wipe device, but keep enrollment state and associated user account** option. If this option is selected, the following will apply:

    |Retained during a wipe |Not retained|
    | -------------|------------|
    |User accounts associated with the device|User files|
    |Machine state \(domain join, Azure AD-joined)| User-installed apps \(store and Win32 apps)|
    |Mobile device management (MDM) enrollment|Non-default device settings|
    |OEM-installed apps \(store and Win32 apps)||
    |User profile||
    |User data outside of the user profile||
    |User autologon||

6. The **Wipe device, and continue to wipe even if device loses power** option makes sure that the wipe action can't be circumvented by turning off the device. This option will keep trying to reset the device until successful. In some configurations, this action may leave the device [unable to reboot](/troubleshoot/mem/intune/troubleshoot-device-actions#wipe-action).
7. For iOS/iPadOS eSIM devices, the cellular data plan is preserved by default when you wipe a device. If you want to remove the data plan from the device when you wipe the device, select the **Also remove the devices data plan...** option.
8. To confirm the wipe, select **Yes**.

If the device is on and connected, the **Wipe** action propagates across all device types in less than 15 minutes.

## Retire

The **Retire** action removes managed app data (where applicable), settings, and email profiles that were assigned by using Intune. The device is removed from Intune management. Removal happens the next time the device checks in and receives the remote **Retire** action. The device still shows up in Intune until the device checks in. If you want to remove stale devices immediately, use the [Delete action](devices-wipe.md#delete-devices-from-the-intune-admin-center) instead.

**Retire** leaves the user's personal data on the device.  

The following tables describe what data is removed, and the effect of the **Retire** action on data that remains on the device after company data is removed.

### iOS

|Data type|iOS|
|-------------|-------|
|Company apps and associated data installed by Intune|**Apps installed using Company Portal:** For apps that are pinned to the management profile, all app data and the apps are removed. These apps include apps originally installed from App Store and later managed as company apps unless the app is configured to not be uninstalled on device removal. <br /><br /> **Microsoft apps that use App Protection Policies and were installed from App Store:** When a Retire action is initiated against an enrolled device, Intune also initiates a [selective wipe](../apps/apps-selective-wipe.md) for apps (including those installed from the App Store) that have work or school account data protected by an [App Protection Policy](../apps/app-protection-policy.md). The next time the app is launched, the selective wipe removes the protected work or school account data. In order for the selective wipe to occur, an App Protection Policy check-in must occur between the MDM enrollment and retire events. Personal app data and the apps are not removed after a selective wipe.|
|Settings|Configurations that were set by Intune policy are no longer enforced. Users can change the settings.|
|Wi-Fi and VPN profile settings|Removed.|
|Certificate profile settings|Certificates are removed and revoked.|
|Management agent|The management profile is removed.|
|Email|Email profiles that are provisioned through Intune are removed. Cached email on the device is deleted.|
|AAD Device Record |The Azure AD record is not removed.|

### Android device administrator

|Data type|Android|Android Samsung Knox Standard|
|-------------|-----------|------------------------|
|Web links|Removed.|Removed.|
|Unmanaged Google Play apps|Apps and data remain installed. <br /> <br />Company app data that's protected by Mobile Application Management (MAM) encryption within the app local storage is removed. Data that's protected by MAM encryption outside the app remains encrypted and unusable, but isn't removed. |Apps and data remain installed. <br /> <br />Company app data that's protected by Mobile Application Management (MAM) encryption within the app local storage is removed. Data that's protected by MAM encryption outside the app remains encrypted and unusable, but isn't removed.|
|Unmanaged line-of-business apps|Apps and data remain installed.|Apps are uninstalled and data that's local to the app is removed. No data that's outside the app (for example, on an SD card) is removed.|
|Managed Google Play apps|App data is removed. The app isn't removed. Data that's protected by Mobile Application Management (MAM) encryption outside the app (for example, an SD card) remains encrypted and unusable, but isn't removed.|App data is removed. The app isn't removed. Data that's protected by MAM encryption outside the app (for example, an SD card) remains encrypted, but isn't removed.|
|Managed line-of-business apps|App data is removed. The app isn't removed. Data that's protected by MAM encryption outside the app (for example, an SD card) remains encrypted and unusable, but isn't removed.|App data is removed. The app isn't removed. Data that's protected by MAM encryption outside the app (for example, an SD card) remains encrypted and unusable, but isn't removed.|
|Settings|Configurations that were set by Intune policy are no longer enforced. Users can change the settings.|Configurations that were set by Intune policy are no longer enforced. Users can change the settings.|
|Wi-Fi and VPN profile settings|Removed.|Removed.|
|Certificate profile settings|Certificates are revoked but not removed.|Certificates are removed and revoked.|
|Management agent|Device Administrator privilege is revoked.|Device Administrator privilege is revoked.|
|Email|N/A (Email profiles aren't supported by Android devices)|Email profiles that are provisioned through Intune are removed. Cached email on the device is deleted.|
|Azure AD unjoin|The Azure AD record is removed.|The Azure AD record is removed.|

### Android Enterprise personally-owned devices with a work profile

Removing company data from an Android personally-owned work profile device removes all data, apps, and settings in the work profile on that device. The device is retired from management with Intune. Wipe is not supported for Android personally-owned work profiles.

### Android Enterprise Dedicated, Fully Managed, and Corporate-Owned Work Profile devices
 - The **Wipe** action is supported on Android Enterprise Dedicated, Fully Managed, and Corporate-Owned Work Profile devices.

 - The **Retire** action is supported on Android Enterprise Corporate-Owned Work Profile devices. When the **Retire** action is used on Android Enterprise Corporate-Owned Work Profile devices, the device is unenrolled from Intune management. The work profile is removed along with all corporate data and applications, but all the personal data and applications remain on the device.


### macOS

|Data type|macOS|
|-------------|-------|
|Settings|Configurations that were set by Intune policy are no longer enforced. Users can change the settings.|
|Wi-Fi and VPN profile settings|Removed.|
|Certificate profile settings|Certificates that were deployed through MDM are removed and revoked.|
|Management agent|The management profile is removed.|
|Outlook|If Conditional Access is enabled, the device doesn't receive new mail.|
|AAD Device Record |The Azure AD record is not removed.|

### Windows

|Data type|Windows 8.1 (MDM) and Windows RT 8.1|Windows RT|Windows 10|
|-------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|-----------------------------------------|
|Company apps and associated data installed by Intune|Keys are revoked for files that are protected by EFS. The user can't open the files.|Company apps aren't removed.|Apps are uninstalled. Sideloading keys are removed.<br>For Windows 10 version 1709 (Creators Update) and later, Microsoft 365 Apps aren't removed. Intune management extension installed Win32 apps will not be uninstalled on unenrolled devices. Admins can leverage assignment exclusion to not offer Win32 apps to BYOD Devices.|
|Settings|Configurations that were set by Intune policy are no longer enforced. Users can change the settings.|Configurations that were set by Intune policy are no longer enforced. Users can change the settings.|Configurations that were set by Intune policy are no longer enforced. Users can change the settings.|
|Wi-Fi and VPN profile settings|Removed.|Removed.|Removed.|
|Certificate profile settings|Certificates are removed and revoked.|Certificates are removed and revoked.|Certificates are removed and revoked.|
|Email|Removes email that's EFS-enabled. This includes emails and attachments in the Mail app for Windows.|Not supported.|Removes email that's EFS-enabled. This includes emails and attachments in the Mail app for Windows. Removes mail accounts that were provisioned by Intune.|
|Azure AD unjoin|No.|No.|The Azure AD record is removed.|

> [!NOTE]
> For Windows 10 devices that join Azure AD during initial Setup (OOBE), the retire command will remove all Azure AD accounts from the device. Follow the steps at [Start your PC in Safe mode](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/12376/windows-10-start-your-pc-in-safe-mode) to login as a local admin and regain access to the user's local data. 

### Retire

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).
2. In the **Devices** pane, select **All devices**.
3. Select the name of the device that you want to retire.
4. In the pane that shows the device name, select **Retire**. To confirm, select **Yes**.

If the device is on and connected, the **Retire** action propagates across all device types in less than 15 minutes.

## Manually un-enroll devices

Device owners can manually un-enroll their devices as explained in the following end user help articles:

- [Remove device from Company Portal for Android](../user-help/unenroll-your-device-from-intune-android.md)
- [Remove device from Company Portal for iOS app](../user-help/unenroll-your-device-from-intune-ios.md)
- [Remove device from Company Portal for macOS app](../user-help/unenroll-your-device-from-intune-macos.md)
- [Remove your Windows device from management](../user-help/unenroll-your-device-from-intune-windows.md)

> [!TIP]
> When a Windows device user un-enrolls their device via the Settings app, Intune does not automatically delete the Intune device or Azure AD records. To remove record of the Intune device, sign in to Microsoft Intune and delete the device manually, or wait for your device cleanup rules to take effect. You must also manually delete the Azure AD record, if applicable, because the cleanups rule will not remove it.  

## Delete devices from the Intune admin center

If you want to remove devices from the Intune admin center, you can delete them from the specific device pane. The next time the device checks in, any company data on it will be removed as Intune also retires a device when deleting it from the admin center.

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).
2. Choose **Devices** > **All devices** > choose the devices you want to delete > **Delete**.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The Delete action will trigger a Bitlocker suspension when Bitlocker encryption is managed by Intune. To create a Bitlocker profile: [Manage BitLocker policy for Windows devices with Intune](../protect/encrypt-devices.md)

### Automatically delete devices with cleanup rules

You can configure Intune to automatically remove devices that appear to be inactive, stale, or unresponsive. These cleanup rules continuously monitor your device inventory so that your device records stay current. Devices deleted in this way are removed from Intune management. This setting affects all devices managed by Intune, not just specific ones.

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).
2. Choose **Devices** > **Device cleanup rules** > **Yes**.
3. In the **Delete devices that haven't checked in for this many days** box, enter a number between 30 and 270.
4. Choose **Save**.

If a removed device checks in before its device certification expires, it will reappear in the admin center.

The device clean up rule doesn't trigger a wipe or retire.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The device clean up rule doesn't trigger a Bitlocker suspension when Bitlocker encryption is managed by Intune. To create a Bitlocker profile: [Manage BitLocker policy for Windows devices with Intune](../protect/encrypt-devices.md)

> [!NOTE]
> Device cleanup rules aren't available for Jamf-managed devices.
>
> You need the permission **Managed Device Cleanup Settings with Update** set to **Yes** to update the device cleanup rules. This permission is part of [Intune Roles](../fundamentals/role-based-access-control.md).

## Delete devices from the Azure Active Directory portal

You might need to delete devices from Azure AD due to communication issues or missing devices. You can use the **Delete** action to remove device records from the Azure portal for devices that you know are unreachable and unlikely to communicate with Azure again. The **Delete** action doesn't remove a device from management.

1. Sign in to [Azure Active Directory in the Azure portal](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/active-directory/) by using your admin credentials. You can also sign in to the [Microsoft 365 admin center](https://admin.microsoft.com). From the menu, select **Admin centers** > **Azure AD**.
2. Create an Azure subscription if you don't have one. This shouldn't require a credit card or payment if you have a paid account (select the **Register your free Azure Active Directory** subscription link).
3. Select **Azure Active Directory**, and then select your organization.
4. Select the **Users** tab.
5. Select the user that's associated with the device that you want to delete.
6. Select **Devices**.
7. Remove devices as appropriate. For example, you might remove devices that are no longer in use, or devices that have inaccurate definitions.

## Retire an Apple ADE device from Intune

If you want to completely remove an Apple automated device enrollment (ADE) device from management by Intune, follow these steps:

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).
2. Choose **Devices** > **All devices** > choose the device > **Retire**.
3. Visit [business.apple.com](http://business.apple.com) and search for the device by its serial number.
4. In the **Assigned to** menu, choose **Unassigned**.

5. Choose **Reassign**.

    ![Screenshot for Apple reassign](./media/devices-wipe/apple-reassign.png)

## Device states

For a description of device states, see the [managementStates collection](../developer/intune-data-warehouse-collections.md#managementstates).

## Fresh Start

Applicable for Windows 10 devices. Read more about [Fresh Start](device-fresh-start.md).

## Next steps

If you want to reenroll a deleted device, see [Enrollment options](../enrollment/enrollment-options.md).
