---
title: Client notifications sent to all collection members in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2010
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Client notifications in Configuration Manager 2010
ms.date: 05/11/2021
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: reference
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: apoorvseth
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.reviewer: mstewart,aaroncz 
ms.collection: tier3
---

# Client notifications sent to all collection members in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2010

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2010)*

## Summary of KB4594177
Selecting a subset of devices in the collection membership view of the Configuration Manager console and choosing an option under **Client Notification** results in all collection members receiving the notification. 
For example, after selecting one device in a collection and choosing the **Restart** option, all collection members receive the notification instead of just the selected device. 
Note the **Start CMPivot** and **Run Script** options are not affected by this issue.

## Update information for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager, version 2010
This update is available in the **Updates and Servicing** node of the Configuration Manager console for environments that were installed by using early update ring or globally available builds of version 2010.
Customers in the Technology Adoption Program (TAP) must have the private TAP rollup installed before this update will appear.
The following update is required for customers that installed an early update ring build of Configuration Manager, version 2010.

- KB [4594176](../../hotfix/2010/4594176.md): Update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2010, early update ring

#### Update replacement information

This update does not replace any previously released updates.

#### Restart information

This update does not require a computer restart but will initiate a [site reset](../../core/servers/manage/modify-your-infrastructure.md#bkmk_reset) after installation.

### Additional installation information

After you install this update on a primary site, pre-existing secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. Configurations and settings for the secondary site are not affected by this reinstallation. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:
   ```code
   select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
   ```
If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.

If the value 0 is returned, the site has not installed all the fixes that are applied to the primary site, and you should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.

## Version information
The following major components are updated to the versions specified:

|Component |Version |
|---|---|
| SMS Provider | 5.00.9040.1019 |

## File information
File information is available in the downloadable [KB4594177_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB4594177_FileList) text file.

## References
[Updates and servicing for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/updates.md)