---
title: Devices do not report app usage data in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2010
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Update for app usage data issue in Configuration Manager 2010
ms.date: 05/11/2021
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: reference
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: dougeby
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---
# Devices do not report app usage data in Configuration Manager current branch, version 2010

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2010)*

## Summary of KB5001670
App usage data is stale or unavailable for devices in the Endpoint Analytics portal in the Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center. This only affects notebook computers that run for multiple days without restarting.
An error resembling the following is recorded in the `SensorManagedProvider.log` file on affected devices.
   ```text
   Other exception - Value was either too large or too small for an Int32.,    at System.Number.ParseInt32(String s, NumberStyles style, NumberFormatInfo info)
   at System.Convert.ToInt32(String value, IFormatProvider provider)
   at Microsoft.ConfigurationManagement.SensorFramework.SrumUtilHelper.ImportCsvToDataTable[T](String filePath)
   ```

## Update information for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager, version 2010
An update to resolve this issue is available in the **Updates and Servicing** node of the Configuration Manager console for environments that completed the tenant attach process and installed the following update rollup.
- KB [4600089](../../hotfix/2010/4600089.md): Update Rollup for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager current branch, version 2010

#### Update replacement information

This update does not replace any previously released updates.

#### Restart information

This update does not require a computer restart but will initiate a [site reset](../../core/servers/manage/modify-your-infrastructure.md#bkmk_reset) after installation.

### Additional installation information

After you install this update on a primary site, pre-existing secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. Configurations and settings for the secondary site are not affected by this reinstallation. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:
   ```code
   select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
   ```
If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.

If the value 0 is returned, the site has not installed all the fixes that are applied to the primary site, and you should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.

## Version information
The following major components are updated to the versions specified:

|Component |Version |
|---|---|
| Client | 5.00.9040.1048 |

## File information
File information is available in the downloadable [KB5001670_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB5001670_FileList) text file.

## References
[Updates and servicing for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/updates.md)