---
title: Microsoft Connected Cache component fails to install on Configuration Manager current branch
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Update for Microsoft Connected Cache component in Configuration Manager 2010
ms.date: 05/11/2021
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: reference
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: apoorvseth
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.reviewer: mstewart,aaroncz 
ms.collection: tier3
---
# Microsoft Connected Cache component fails to install on Configuration Manager current branch

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, versions 1910 - 2010)*

## Summary of KB5001600
> [!NOTE]
> This update is replaced by the following newer version effective January 21, 2022
>
> [KB 12819689 Connected cache update for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager version 2111](../../hotfix/2111/12819689.md)
>

Due to content delivery network changes, the Microsoft Connected Cache (MCC) server component installation fails when enabled for distribution points *after* **March 5, 2021**.
This component is enabled by selecting the **Enable this distribution point to be used as Microsoft Connected Cache server** option in a distribution point's properties. 
After March 5, 2021, once enabled, the component will retry installation three times before stopping. 
The `DoincSetup.log` found in the distribution point installation folder under `\SMS_DP$\Ms.Dsp.Do.Inc.Setup` contains entries resembling the following:
   ```text
   Setting InvocationErrorMessage : Failed to find downloaded content in the primary disk caches
   Installer return code: 13631517
   ```
`Distmgr.log` on the site server for the distribution point contains entries resembling the following after the third installation attempt.
   ```text
   Finished waiting for DoincInstall. InvocationState: InstallCompleted. InvocationExitCode: 13631517. InvocationMessage: Failed to find downloaded content in the primary disk caches.
   STATMSG: ID=9522 SEV=E LEV=M SOURCE="SMS Server" COMP="SMS_DISTRIBUTION_MANAGER"...
   ```
The following status message for the `SMS_DISTRIBUTION_MANAGER` component is generated after the third installation attempt.
   ```text
   Message ID: 9522
    Message text: Delivery Optimization In-Network Cache setup on distribution point "{distribution_point}" failed. Error code 13631517.
   Error message: Failed to find downloaded content in the primary disk caches. See DoincSetup.log on the distribution point for more details.
   ```

> [!NOTE]
> This issue does not affect any distribution point where MCC was enabled before **March 5, 2021**.
However, it will affect distribution points with MCC enabled when updating between Configuration Manager current branch versions. 
The following update scenarios result in the error described in this article because distribution points are reinstalled.
>    - Updating from Configuration Manager current branch, version 1910 to a higher version.
>    - Updating from version 2002 to 2010.
>    - Updating from version 2006 to 2010.
> 
> The revised `DoincInstall.exe` from this article can be installed to any site prior to a version update to avoid this issue. It will not be overwritten when moving to version 2010 or later.

## Resolution
The following hotfix to resolve this problem is available for download from the Microsoft Download Center:
[Download this hotfix now.](https://download.microsoft.com/download/3/0/6/306AC1B2-59BE-43B8-8C65-E141EF287A5E/KB5001600/ConfigMgr-KB5001600.exe)
After you download this hotfix, refer to the following installation instructions.

## Installation instructions
1. Run **ConfigMgr-KB5001600.exe** and accept the license terms to extract the contents to a folder.
2. Confirm status message **9522** is generated for the `SMS_DISTRIBUTION_MANAGER` component, indicating that installation is no longer being retried.
3. Copy the new version of `DoincInstall.exe`, version **1.5.4.1512**, to the `{SMSInstallDir}\bin\x64` folder on all site servers, including the Central Administration Site (CAS) if present, and any passive sites.
4. Uncheck the **Enable this distribution point to be used as Microsoft Connected Cache server** option in the affected distribution point’s properties.
5. Wait for the uninstall of MCC to complete on the distribution point. This can be confirmed by looking for a **9152** success status message, combined with the following entry in `distmgr.log`.
   ```text
   Finished waiting for DoincInstall. InvocationState: UninstallCompleted. InvocationExitCode: 0. InvocationMessage: .
   ```
6. Re-check the **Enable this distribution point to be used as Microsoft Connected Cache server** option for the affected distribution point.

   > [!TIP]
   > For sites with a large number of distribution points, replace steps 4 - 6 above with the following.
   > - Create an empty file named `resetdps.trn` and place it in the `{SMSInstallDir}\inboxes\distmgr.box` folder. This will reinstall all distribution points for that site using the latest version of `DoincInstall.exe` copied in step 3. above. 

## Prerequisites
To apply this hotfix, you must be using Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager, versions 1910 through 2010.

## Restart information
You don't have to restart the computer after you apply this hotfix. 

## Hotfix replacement information
This hotfix does not replace any previously released hotfix.

## File information
File information is available in the downloadable [KB5001600_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB5001600_FileList) text file.