---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.technology: configmgr-core
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 10/17/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_diag"></a> Client diagnostic actions

<!--4433455-->

Based on feedback, there are new device actions for **Client Diagnostics** in the Configuration Manager console. This release includes the following actions:

- **Enable verbose logging**: Change the global log level for the CCM component to verbose, and enable debug logging.
- **Disable verbose logging**: Change the global log level to default, and disable debug logging.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> These actions only change the log verbosity, not the size or history. More verbose logging can generate more log content.

For more information about these settings, see [About log files](../../../../plan-design/hierarchy/about-log-files.md#client-and-management-point-logging-options).

> [!NOTE]
> The management point role also uses the CCM component. If the targeted device is also a management point, this action also applies to that role.

### Prerequisites

- Update the target client to the latest version.

- Your Configuration Manager administrative user needs the **Notify resource** permission. For more information, see [Client notification](../../../../clients/manage/client-notification.md#client-notification).

### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Assets and Compliance** workspace, select the **Devices** node, and choose a target device.

1. In the ribbon, on the **Home** tab, in the **Device** group, select **Client Diagnostics**. Choose one of the available actions.

Track the status of the task in the **diagnostics.log** on the client.
