---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 03/29/2019


---

## <a name="bkmk_doinc"></a> Use your distribution point as a local cache server for Delivery Optimization
<!--3555764-->

You can now install Delivery Optimization In-Network Cache server on your distribution points. By caching this content on-premises, your clients can benefit from the Delivery Optimization feature, but you can help to protect WAN links. 

This cache server acts as an on-demand transparent cache for content downloaded by Delivery Optimization. Use client settings to make sure this server is offered only to the members of the local Configuration Manager boundary group. 

This cache is separate from Configuration Manager's distribution point content. If you choose the same drive as the distribution point role, it stores content separately. 

> [!Note]  
> Delivery Optimization In-Network Cache server is an application installed on Windows Server that's still in development. It's tagged with a "beta" label in the Configuration Manager console.  


### Prerequisites

- A distribution point running Windows Server 2012, Windows Server 2012 R2, Windows Server 2016, or Windows Server 2019.

- The distribution point requires internet access to the Microsoft cloud. The specific URLs can vary depending upon the specific cloud-enabled content. 

- Clients running Windows 10 version 1709 or later


### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the properties of the distribution point role, on the **General** tab, configure the following settings:  

    1. Enable the option to **Enable this distribution point to be used as a Delivery Optimization In-Network Cache server**  

    2. **Local drive to be used**: Select the disk to use for the cache. **Automatic** is the default value, which uses the disk with the most free space.  

    3. **Disk space**: Select the amount of disk space to reserve in GB or a percentage of the total disk space. By default, this value is 100 GB.

    4. **Retain cache when disabling the in-network cache server**: If you remove the cache server, and you enable this option, the server keeps the cache's content on the disk.  

2. In client settings, in the **Delivery Optimization** group, configure the setting to **Enable devices managed by Configuration Manager to use Delivery Optimization In-Network Cache servers for content download**.  


### Verify

When clients download cloud-managed content, they use Delivery Optimization from the cache server installed on your distribution point. Cloud-managed content includes the following types:
- Microsoft Store apps
- Windows features on demand, such as languages
- If you enable [Windows Update for Business policies](../../../../../sum/deploy-use/integrate-windows-update-for-business-windows-10.md): Windows 10 feature and quality updates
- For [co-management workloads](../../../../../comanage/workloads.md):
    - Windows Update for Business: Windows 10 feature and quality updates
    - Office Click-to-Run apps: Office apps and updates
    - Client apps: Microsoft Store apps and updates
    - Endpoint Protection: Windows Defender definition updates

On Windows 10 version 1809 or later, verify this behavior with the **Get-DeliveryOptimizationStatus** Windows PowerShell cmdlet. In the cmdlet output, review the **BytesFromCacheServer** value. 

If the cache server returns any HTTP failure, the Delivery Optimization client falls back to the original cloud source.

