---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 10/16/2018
---

## <a name="bkmk_auth"></a> Configuration Manager administrator authentication
<!--1357013-->

You can now specify the minimum authentication level for administrators to access Configuration Manager sites. This feature enforces administrators to sign in to Windows with the required level. To configure this setting, find the **Authentication** tab in **Hierarchy Settings**. 

The following levels are available:

- **Windows authentication**: Require authentication with Active Directory domain credentials. This setting is the previous behavior, and the current default setting. When you update the site, there's no change to the authentication level.  

- **Certificate authentication**: Require authentication with a valid certificate that's issued by a trusted PKI certificate authority. You don't configure this certificate in Configuration Manager. Configuration Manager requires the administrator to be signed into Windows using PKI.  

- **Windows Hello for Business authentication**: Require authentication with strong two-factor authentication that's tied to a device and uses biometrics or a PIN. You can use Configuration Manager to manage and deploy Windows Hello for Business policies. For more information, see [Windows Hello for Business settings](/sccm/protect/deploy-use/windows-hello-for-business-settings).  

To change this setting, first sign in to Windows with the intended authentication level. 

> [!Important]  
> This configuration is a hierarchy-wide setting. Before you change this setting, make sure that all Configuration Manager administrators can sign in to Windows with the required authentication level. 
> 
> It applies to all components that access the [SMS Provider](/sccm/core/plan-design/hierarchy/plan-for-the-sms-provider). For example, the Configuration Manager console, SDK methods, and Windows PowerShell cmdlets.  

From the **Authentication** tab of Hierarchy Settings, you can also exclude certain users or groups. Use this option sparingly. For example, when specific users require access to the Configuration Manager console, but can't authenticate to Windows at the required level. It may also be necessary for automation or services that run under the context of a system account.


