---
author: aczechowski
ms.author: aaroncz
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 10/16/2018
---

## <a name="bkmk_msix"></a> Convert applications to MSIX
<!--1359029-->

Starting in version 1806, Configuration Manager supports deployment of the new Windows 10 app package (.msix) format. Now you can convert your existing Windows Installer (.msi), Script Installer (.exe), and App-V v5 applications to the MSIX format. 

For more information, see [Create Windows applications](/sccm/apps/get-started/creating-windows-applications#bkmk_general).


### Prerequisites

- A reference device running Windows 10, version 1809, or later.  

- Sign in to Windows as a user with local administrative rights.  

- Install the Configuration Manager console.

- Install the [MSIX Packaging Tool](https://www.microsoft.com/store/productId/9N5LW3JBCXKF) from the Microsoft Store.  

Don't install any other apps or services. This device is your reference system. 


### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](/sccm/core/understand/find-help#product-feedback) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to the **Software Library** workspace, expand **Application Management**, and select the **Applications** node.  

2. Select an application that has one of the following deployment types:  
    - Windows Installer (.msi)  
    - Script Installer (.exe)  
    - App-V v5  

3. Select **Convert to .MSIX** in the ribbon.

When the wizard completes, the MSIX Packaging Tool creates an MSIX file in the location you specified in the wizard.

### Next steps

To use this MSIX app, you first need to digitally sign it so that clients trust it. For more information on this process, see the following articles: 
- [MSIX – The MSIX Packaging Tool – signing the MSIX package](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/sgern/2018/09/06/msix-the-msix-packaging-tool-signing-the-msix-package/)
- [How to sign an app package using SignTool](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/appxpkg/how-to-sign-a-package-using-signtool)

After signing the app, create a new deployment type on the application in Configuration Manager. For more information, see [Create deployment types for the application](/sccm/apps/deploy-use/create-applications#bkmk_create-dt).


