---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 02/19/2019
---

## <a name="bkmk_pod"></a> Improvement to phased deployment success criteria
<!--3555946-->

Specify additional criteria for the success of a phase in a phased deployment. Instead of only a percentage, this criteria can now also be the number of devices successfully deployed. This option is useful when the size of the collection is variable, and you have a specific number of devices to show success before moving to the next phase.


### Try it out!

Try to complete the tasks. Then send [Feedback](../../../../understand/product-feedback.md) with your thoughts on the feature.

1. Create a phased deployment for a [task sequence](../../../../../osd/deploy-use/create-phased-deployment-for-task-sequence.md), [application](../../../../../osd/deploy-use/create-phased-deployment-for-task-sequence.md?toc=/mem/configmgr/app/toc.json&bc=/mem/configmgr/app/breadcrumb/toc.json), or [software update](../../../../../osd/deploy-use/create-phased-deployment-for-task-sequence.md?toc=/mem/configmgr/sum/toc.json&bc=/mem/configmgr/sum/breadcrumb/toc.json).  

2. On the Settings page of the wizard, select the following option as the criteria for success of the first phase: **Number of devices successfully deployed**. Then specify a number between 1 and 100,000.  

3. Complete the wizard.  

To monitor the deployment, use the **Phased Deployment Status** action in the Deployments node. For more information, see [Monitor phased deployments](../../../../../osd/deploy-use/manage-monitor-phased-deployments.md#bkmk_monitor). The **SMS_PhasedDeployment.log** on the site server shows the criteria evaluation.

> [!Tip]  
> - Use this setting on collections that may increase in the number of members. If the collection reduces in size, this criteria may become greater than the total membership. 
> 
> - Don't set this value to be significantly greater than the current size of the collection.  

