---
author: Banreet
ms.author: banreetkaur
ms.prod: configuration-manager
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 04/05/2019
---

## <a name="bkmk_o365"></a> Integration with analytics for Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise readiness
<!--3735402-->

Use Configuration Manager to identify devices with high confidence that are ready to upgrade to Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise. By integrating with Office analytics, it provides insights into any potential compatibility issues with Office add-ins and macros used in your environment. Then use Configuration Manager to deploy Office to ready devices. 

The existing [Office 365 client management dashboard](../../../../../sum/deploy-use/office-365-dashboard.md#bkmk_o365_readiness) now includes a new tile, **Office 365 ProPlus Upgrade Readiness**. This tile is a bar chart of devices in the following states:
- Not assessed
- Ready to upgrade
- Needs review

Select a state to drill-through to a device list. This readiness report shows more detail about devices. It includes columns for the compatibility state of both Office add-ins and macros. 


### Prerequisites

- Enable hardware inventory in client settings. For more information, see [How to configure hardware inventory](../../../../clients/manage/inventory/configure-hardware-inventory.md).  

- The device needs connectivity to the Office content delivery network (CDN) to download an add-in readiness file. For more information, see [Content delivery networks](/office365/enterprise/content-delivery-networks). If the device can't download this file, the add-ins state is *Needs review*.  

    > [!Note]  
    > No data is sent to Microsoft for this feature.  


### <a name="bkmk_ort"></a> Detailed macro readiness

By default, the scanning agent looks at the most recently used (MRU) files list on each device. It counts the files in this list that support macros. These files include the following types:
- Macro-enabled Office file formats, such as Excel macro-enabled workbooks (.xlsm) or Word macro-enabled document (.docm)  
- Older Office formats that don't indicate whether there's macro content. For example, an Excel 97-2003 workbook (.xls).

If you need a more detailed evaluation, deploy the **Readiness Toolkit**. This tool analyzes the code within a macro file. It checks if there are any potential compatibility concerns. For example, the file uses a function that changed in a more recent version of Office. After you run the Readiness Toolkit, Configuration Manager can use its results. This additional data enhances the device readiness calculation.

For more information, see [Use the Readiness Toolkit to assess application compatibility for Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise](/deployoffice/readiness-toolkit-application-compatibility-microsoft-365-apps).