---
title: Update rollup for Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2403
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Update rollup for Configuration Manager 2403
ms.date: 10/29/2024
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: fe1739ef-69f7-4908-89b3-6b6189a94680
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: dougeby
---

# Update rollup for Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2403

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2403)*

## Summary of KB28204160
This article describes issues that are fixed in the update rollup for Microsoft Configuration Manager current branch, version 2403. This update applies both to customers who opted in through a PowerShell script to the early update ring deployment, and customers who installed the globally available release.

For more information on changes in Configuration Manager version 2403, see:

- [What’s new in version 2403 of Configuration Manager current branch](../../core/plan-design/changes/whats-new-in-version-2403.md)
- [Summary of changes in Microsoft Configuration Manager current branch, version 2403](../../hotfix/2403/26186448.md)

## Issues that are fixed
<!-- 28289696 -->
- Collection management and policy processing might take longer than expected. The following message is recorded in the policypv.log file.
   ```console
   ~++++ProcessPolicyChanges: Waiting for exec sp_ProcessPolicyChanges 1 to complete
   ```
   The log file entry can repeat multiple times with significant delays between each one.
<!-- 28532360 -->
- A timing issue can still cause a double reboot to break a Task Sequence despite setting the *SMSTSWaitForSecondReboot* variable.

<!-- 28755111 -->
- Temporary files used on management points and cloud management gateway (CMG) systems are now precompiled and signed to prevent false positives from security or code integrity scanners.

<!-- 28485036 -->
- The content download from a cloud management gateway to a client can fail after updating to Configuration Manager current branch, version 2403. This is more common when BranchCache is enabled and boundary groups are used. Errors resembling the following are recorded in the DataTransferService.log file.
   ```console
   GetDirectoryList_HTTP Error sending DAV request. HTTP code 500, status 'Internal Server Error'
   ```
<!-- 28179664 -->
- The SMS Agent Host service (ccmexec.exe) terminates unexpectedly when downloading content from a cloud-based source.


## Hotfixes that are included in this update

- [KB 28290310](../../hotfix/2403/28290310.md): CMG update for Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2403
- [KB 28458746](../../hotfix/2403/28458746.md): Software update management client fix for Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2403
- [KB 29166583](../../hotfix/2403/29166583.md): Management point security update for Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2403

## Update information for Microsoft Configuration Manager current branch, version 2403

This update is available in the Updates and Servicing node of the Configuration Manager console for environments that were installed by using the globally available build of version 2403.

<!-- Members of the Configuration Manager Technology Adoption Program (TAP) must first apply the private TAP rollup before this update is displayed. -->

To verify which build is in use, look for a Package GUID by adding the Package GUID column to the details pane of the Updates and Servicing node in the console. The update applies to installations from packages that have the following GUID:

- **5B8886C7-F967-4F8A-92AA-009E28368853**

### Restart information

This update doesn't require a computer restart but will initiate a [site reset](../../core/servers/manage/modify-your-infrastructure.md#bkmk_reset) after installation.

### Additional installation information

After you install this update on a primary site, preexisting secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. The reinstallation doesn't affect configurations and settings for the secondary site. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:

```sql
select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
```

If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.

If the value 0 is returned, the site hasn't installed all the fixes that are applied to the primary site, and you should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.

## Version information

The following major components are updated to the versions specified:

| Component | Version |
|---|---|
| Configuration Manager console | 5.2403.1171.2400 |
| Client | 5.0.9128.1026 |

## File information

File information for the release is available in the downloadable [KB28204160_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB28204160_FileList) text file.

## Release history

- October 29, 2024: Initial hotfix release

## References

[Updates and servicing for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/updates.md)
