---
title: CMG update for Microsoft Configuration Manager version 2403
titleSuffix: Configuration Manager
description: Cloud management gateway update for Configuration Manager 2403
ms.date: 06/20/2024
ms.subservice: core-infra
ms.service: configuration-manager
ms.topic: reference
ms.assetid: dc2a2ea6-c742-41ed-a481-842b9f049b7f
author: bhuney
ms.author: brianhun
manager: dougeby
---

# Cloud management gateway update for Configuration Manager 2403

*Applies to: Configuration Manager (current branch, version 2403)*

## Summary of KB28290310
<!-- 28290310 -->
An update is available to change the operating system version of cloud management gateway (CMG) virtual machine scale set images. After update installation, the new OS Build value is 20348.2402. This prevents the message "Virtual machines or virtual machine scale sets are running on images that will be deprecated soon" from being displayed.


### Update information for Microsoft Configuration Manager current branch, version 2403

This update is available in the Updates and Servicing node of the Configuration Manager console for version 2403 environments that meet the following criteria:
- CMG is deployed with a virtual machine scale set.

### Restart information

This update doesn't require a computer restart or a [site reset](../../core/servers/manage/modify-your-infrastructure.md#bkmk_reset) after installation.

### Additional installation information

After you install this update on a primary site, pre-existing secondary sites must be manually updated. To update a secondary site in the Configuration Manager console, select **Administration** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites** >  **Recover Secondary Site**, and then select the secondary site. The primary site then reinstalls that secondary site by using the updated files. Configurations and settings for the secondary site aren't affected by this reinstallation. The new, upgraded, and reinstalled secondary sites under that primary site automatically receive this update.

Run the following SQL Server command on the site database to check whether the update version of a secondary site matches that of its parent primary site:
   ```sql
   select dbo.fnGetSecondarySiteCMUpdateStatus ('SiteCode_of_secondary_site')
   ```
If the value 1 is returned, the site is up to date, with all the hotfixes applied on its parent primary site.

If the value 0 is returned, the site hasn't installed all the fixes that are applied to the primary site, and you should use the **Recover Secondary Site** option to update the secondary site.

## Version information
- CMG virtual machine scale sets are updated to OS Build 20348.2402

## File information
File information is available in the downloadable [KB28290310_FileList.txt](https://aka.ms/KB28290310_FileList) text file.

## Release history
- June 20, 2024: Initial hotfix release

## References
[Updates and servicing for Configuration Manager](../../core/servers/manage/updates.md)